THE  MORNING  TRUMPET. 
“  There  shall  be  a  resurrection  of  the  dead,  both  of  the  just  and  unjust.—Acts  24  :  15. 
John  Leland,  1833.  Key  of  F  Sharp  Minor. 
85 
B.  F.  White,  1847. 
f  O  when  shall  I  see  Jesus,  And  reign  with  Him  above,  And  shall  hear  the  trumpet  sound  in  that  morning?1  n  1 
I  And  from  the  flowing  fountain,  Drink  everlasting  love,  And  shall  hear  the  trumpet  sound  in  that  morning?  j  3nouI >■  ry!  for  I  shall 
f  When  shall  I  be  delivered  From  this  vain  world  of  sin,  And  shall  hear  the  trumpet  sound  in  that  morning?  1  n 
I  And  with  my  blessed  Jesus,  Drink  endless  pleasures  in,  And  shall  hear  the  trumpet  sound  in  that  morning?  /  Snout,  u  gio  ■  ry!  fori  shall 
mount  above  the  skies,  When  I  hear  the  trumpet  sound  in  that  morning. 
mount  above  the  skies,ZWhen  I  hear  the  trumpet  sound  in  that  morning. 
2  But  now  I  am  a  soldier, 
My  Captain’s  gone  before; 
He’s  given  me  my  orders, 
And  bids  me  ne’er  give  o’er; 
His  promises  are  faithful— 
A  righteous  crown  He’ll  give, 
And  all  His  valiant  soldiers 
Eternally  shall  live. 
Shout,  etc. 
3  Through  grace  I  feel  determined 
To  conquer,  though  I  die, 
And  then  away  to  Jesus 
On  wings  of  love  1’11  fly; 
Farewell  to  sin  and  sorrow, 
I  bid  them  both  adieu  ! 
And  O,  my  friends,  prove  faithful, 
And  on  your  way  pursue. 
Shout,  etc. 
4  Whene’er  you  meet  with  troubles, 
And  trials  on  your  way, 
Then  cast  your  cares  on  Jesus, 
And  don’t  forget  to  pray. 
Gird  on  the  gospel  armor 
Of  faith,  and  hope,  and  love, 
And  when  the  combat’s  ended, 
He’ll  carry  you  above. 
Shout,  etc. 
5  O  do  not  be  discouraged, 
For  Jesus  is  your  Friend; 
And  if  you  lack  for  knowledge 
He’ll  not  refuse  to  lend. 
Neither  will  He  upbraid  you, 
Though  often  you  request, 
He’ll  give  you  grace  to  conquer, 
And  take  you  home  to  rest. 
Shout,  etc. 
John  Leland  was  born  in  Massachusetts  in  1754  and  died  in  1844-  He  was  a  Baptist  minister,  laboring  mostly  in  Virginia  and  Massachusetts.  His  life 
and  writings  were  published  in  1845  by  Miss  L.  F.  Green.  His  two  noted  hymns  were,  “O  When  Shall  1  See  Jesus?”  and  “The  Day  is  Past  and  Gone.” 
For  further  sketch  see  “  Bound  for  Canaan.”  This  is  claimed  by  William  Walker  under  another  name.  We  find  it  credited  to  Major  White  for  so  long  a 
time  that  we  are  unwilling  to  make  the  change  as  to  authorship.  See  revisions  of  “Sacred  Harp”  up  to  1869. 
