So  SHOUTING  SONG.  7s  &  8s. 
11  Let  them  praise  the  name  of  the  Lord  :  for  his  name  alone  is  excel le nt:  his  glory  is  above  the  earth  and  heaven  ” Ps  148  •  13 
Key  of  Ffl  Minor.  ‘  ‘  B .  F.  White,  1844. 
T  f  Je  -  sus,  grant  us  all  a  bless-ing,  Shout-ing,  sing-ing,  send  it  down;  1  e hnilt  n  .  .  „  . 
I  Lord,  a  -  bove  may  we  go  pray  -  ing,  And  re  -  joic  -  ing  in  Thy  love.  j  2>nouI ’  u  gl0 ‘ r y J  slng  glo-ry,  hal-le-lu-jah!  I’m  going  where  pleasure  never  dies. 
2  f  Je  -  sus,  par  -  don  all  our 
I  Make  us  hum-ble,  make  us 
fol  -  lies,  Since  to-geth-er  we  have  been,  Iq.  .  n  .  . 
ho  -  ly,  Cleanse  us  all  from  ev-’ry  sin.  /  bnout ’  u  glo-ry!  sing  glo-ry,  hal-le-lu-jah!  I’m  going  where  pleasure  never  dies. 
The  words  in  this  song  are  taken  from  “  Zion  Songster,”  page  268,  published  in  1832.  The  name  of  the  author  is  not  given.  While  the  outline  of  the  above 
appears  in  some  of  the  books  of  the  early  part  of  the  nineteenth  century,  it  was  so  remodeled  as  to  make  it  practically  a  new  tune,  by  Major  White,  about  1844.  He 
added  the  chorus.  It  originally  had  this  chorus,  “  Farewell,  brethren,  farewell,  sisters,  till  we  all  shall  meet  again.” 
SERVICE  OF  THE  LORD. 
Key  of  F  Major.  “Singing  with  grace  in  your  heart  to  the  Lord.”—Col.  3  :  16.  F  T.  KING,  1844 
CHORUS. 
f  Farewell,  vain  world,  I’m  go-ing  home; 
1  My  Saviour  smiles  and  bids  me  come 
1  am  bound  to  die  in  the  ar-my;  ) 
I  am  bound  to  die  in  the  ar-my.  ) 
I  am  bound  to  live  in  the  service  of  my  Lord,  I  am  bound  to  die  in  the  army. 
f  Sweet  an-gels  beck-on  me  a  -  way, 
1  To  sing  God’s  praise  in  end-less  day, 
I  am  bound  to  die  in  the  army;  "I 
I  am  bound  to  die  in  the  ar-my.  J 
I  am  bound  to  live  in  the  service  of  my  Lord,  I  am  bound  to  die  in  the  army. 
It  is  supposed  that  Prof.  E.  J.  King  composed  this  tune  at  the  same  time  that  Major  White  composed  “Shouting  Song,”  and  they  are  intended  to  match  each 
other.  The  tunes  are  similar,  and  have  been  printed  in  “  Sacred  Harp  ”  in  the  different  revisions.  We  are  unable  to  find  the  author’s  name  of  the  hymn, 
