8  RUDIMENTS  OF 
16.  When  only  a  part  of  the  previous  passage  is  to  be  repeated,  how  is  it 
to  be  indicated? 
By  dots  placed  in  the  spaces  at  the  right  hand  of  a  bar,  in  which  case, 
all  between  the  two  sets  or  dots  is  to  be  repeated. 
18.  What  does  the  Bis  imply? 
That  the  passage  so  marked  is  to  be  performed  twice. 
18.  What  does  the  hold  or  pause  denote? 
That  the  tone  indicated  is  to  be  prolonged  a  reasonable  time  longer  than 
other  notes. 
19.  What  is  a  Unison  Passage? 
A  passage  in  which  two  or  more  parts  sing  to  the  same  tones. 
Unison  Passage.  Fine.  Bis  D. 
20.  What  is  understood  by  the  letters  D.  C. 
Da  Capo.  Close  with  the  first  strain. 
21.  What  is  the  meaning  of  D.  S.? 
Dal  Segno.  Return  to  sign. 
22.  What  is  a  triplet? 
Three  equal  tones  performed  in  the  time  of  two. 
23.  How  do  we  know  them? 
There  are  three  notes,  slurred  or  tied,  or  marked  with  a  figure  3. 
24.  What  do  we  understand  by  a  Syncopation? 
It  is  the  commencing  of  a  tone  on  an  unaccented  beat  of  a  measure,  and 
continuing  it  into  the  following  accented  pulse,  temporarily  displacing  the 
natural  accent. 
SYNCOPATION. 
25.  What  about  intermediate  tones? 
They  occur  between  the  regular  tones  of  a  key. 
26.  In  the  major  key  when  do  we  find  intermediate  tones? 
Between  1  and  2,  2  and  3,  4  and  5,  6  and  7. 
LESSON  IV—MODES  OR  MOODS  OF  TIME  AND  BEATING  TIME. 
1.  What  are  modes  or  moods  of  time? 
It  is  a  division  of  the  measure  into  the  proper  time,  counts,  pulsations  and 
beats. 
2.  Does  the  time  of  a  tune  ever  change  from  that  set  at  the  beginning? 
If  so,  how  is  this  done? 
Yes,  it  often  changes  in  some  composition  or  tune.  Whenever  the  change 
occurred  there  is  placed  on  the  staff  whatever  mode  it  is,  the  figures  represent -
ing  that  particular  mode  of  time. 
DIFFERENT  MODES  OF  TIME. 
3.  How  many  modes  of  time  is  there  generally  used  in  music? 
There  are  several  modes,  among  them  are  the  following:  Common,  triple 
and  compound,  etc. 
4.  How  many  modes  of  common  time  are  there? 
Generally  three. 
5.  What  are  they  called  and  how  do  we  know  them? 
We  know  them  by  the  fractional  figures  placed  at  the  beginning  of  a  tune, 
MUSIC.  Continued. 
as  in  any  change  of  time  of  the  music. 
6.  How  do  we  know  1st  mode  of  common  time? 
Two  over  two, 
has  two  beats  to 
the  measure. 
1  first  down,  second  up. 
Having  a  semibreve,  or 
its  equivalent,  thus: 
for  a  measure  note.  It  is  rendered  in  three  seconds  to  the  measure.  In  some 
books  it  is  called  double-time  or  two-two  time,  accented  on  first  part  of  the 
measure,  on  the  down  beat. 
7.  How  is  the  second  mode  known? 
By  four  over  four.  Having  the  same  measure  note  as  the  first  mode, 
performed  in  two  and  one-half  seconds  to  the  measure.  When  the  four-note 
method  is  used,  and  has  four  beats  to  the  measure,  when  seven  shape  or  round 
notes  are  used.  If  two  beats  they  will  be  down  and  up;  if  four  beats,  down, 
left,  right,  up.  In  some  books  it  is  called  quadruple  or  four-four  time,  ac -
cented  on  the  first  and  third  parts  of  the  measure.  (See  example  below.) 
8.  How  do  we  know  the  third  mode  of  common  time? 
By  the  figures  Two  over  Four,  sung  in  one  and  one-half  seconds  to  the 
measure,  having  two  beats  to  the  measure,  down  and  up.  It  is  called  in  some 
of  the  books  double-time.  Accented  on  the  first  part  of  the  measure,  having 
a  minim  for  measure  notes.  In  this  book  all  modes  of  time  have  only  two  beats 
to  the  measure  except  triple  time;  it  has  three  beats. 
TRIPLE  TIME. 
9.  Explain  about  the  first  and  second  moods  of  triple  time. 
The  first  mood  of  triple  time  is  known  by  three  over  two.  Rendered 
in  three  seconds  to  the  measure  and  having  a  dotted,  semibreve  or  three 
minims  to  the  measure.  Three  beats  to  the  measure,  down,  left,  up.  Some -
times  this  is  called  three-two  time,  accented  on  the  first  part  of  each  meas -
ure.  (Example  below.) 
10.  How  do  we  know  the  second  mode  of  triple  time? 
The  second  mode  of  triple  time  is  known  by  three  over  four,  two  sec -
onds  to  the  measure,  three  beats,  down,  left,  up.  Accented  on  the  first  beat 
in  the  measure,  having  three  Crotchets  to  the  measure.  (Example  below.) 
11.  How  about  the  third  mode  of  triple  time? 
It  is  known  by  three  over  eight  rendered  in  1  1-4  seconds  to  the  meas -
ure.  Accented  on  the  1st  part  of  the  measure  it  has  three  beats,  down,  left,  up. 
(Example  below.) 
