John  Cennick,  1743. 
JERUSALEM.  L.  M.  53 
“  Hope  of  eternal  life,  which  God,  that  cannot  lie,  promised  before  the  world  began.”—Titus  1:  2. 
Key  of  A  Minor.  Arr.  by  Wm.  Walker,  about  1832. 
Je  -  sus,  my  all  to  heav’n  is  gone,  He  whom  1  fix  my  hopes  up  -  on; 
His  track  I  see,  and  I’d  pur-sue  The  nar-row  way  till  Him  I  view. 
The  way  the  ho  -  ly  proph-ets  went,  The  road  that  leads  from  ban-ish-ment, 
The  King  s  high-way  of  ho  -  li-ness  I’ll  go,  for  all  His  paths  are  peace. 
1  2 
This  is  the  way  I  long  have  sought,  And  mourned  be-cause  I  found  it  not; 
My  grief  a  bur  -  den  long  has  been,  Be-cause  I  was  not  saved  from  sin. 
Then  will  I  tell  to  sin-ners  round,  What  a  dear  Sav-iour  I  have  found; 
I’ll  point  to  Thy  re-deem  -  ing  blood,  And  say,  “Be-hold  the  way  to  God.” 
1  2 
I’m  on  my  jour-ney  home  to  the 
Lo!  glad  I  come,  and  thou,  blest  Lamb,  Shalt  take  me  to  thee,  whose  I  am; 
Noth-ing  but  sin  have  I  to  give,  Noth-ing  but  love  shall  I  re-ceive. 
1  2 
I’m  on  my  jour-ney  home  to  the  new  Je-ru-sa  -  lem, 
I’m 
on  my  jour-ney  home  to  the  new  Je-ru  -  sa-lem,  So 
fare  you  well,  So  fare  you  well,  So  fare  you  well,  lam  go  -  ing  home. 
new  Je-ru-sa-lem, 
I’m  on  my  jour-ney  home  to  the  new  Je-ru  -  sa-lem,  So  fare  you  well,  So  fare  you  well,  So  fare  you  well,  I  am  go  -  ing  home. 
The  original  title  to  this  hymn  was  “Christ,  the  Sinner’s  Way  to  God.”  John  Cennick  was  born  in  England  in  1718.  He  joined  the  Methodist  societies  of 
the  Wesley’s  when  he  was  seventeen  years  old,  and  afterward  became  a  preacher.  A  dispute  arose  in  the  church,  and  he  afterward  founded  an  independent  church 
of  his  own,  which  was  gathered  into  the  Whitfield  and  Huntingdon  connection.  Sometime  after  that  he  joined  the  Moravians,  and  spent  the  remainder  of  his  life 
with  them.  He  died  in  175s.  He  was  a  man  of  sincere  piety,  was  a  polished  poet  and  writer.  His  hymns  were  published  in  1741.  He  was  the  author  of  two  great 
and  well-known  hymns,  “  Children  of  the  Heavenly  King,”  and  the  above-named  hymn.  The  stanzas  in  both  hymns  are  regarded  of  the  highest  standard  of 
hymnics.  The  last  named  has  found  its  way  into  the  hymn  books  of  the  American  churches.  Alto  by  S.  M.  Denson,  1911. 
This  tune  is  credited  to  William  Walker  (about  1832).  See  “  Southern  Harmony,”  by  him,  page  11,  1835;  “  Christian  Harmony,”  by  same  author,  page  207, 
1866.  The  tune  in  its  present  form  was  arranged  by  Mr.  Walker,  but  the  author  is  unknown.  copyright,  1909,  by  j.  s.  James. 
