have  been  published  in  the  early  song  books  of  this  country,  all  of 
which  has  caused  tedious  research  and  patience.  The  plan  of  writing 
sketches  of  authors  and  tunes  has  not  been  attempted  heretofore  by 
authors  of  music  in  connection  with  the  tune,  except  the  writer  of  this 
article.  (See  Union  Harp  and  History  of  Songs  published  by  him  in 
1909.)  In  that  book  there  was  a  much  smaller  number  of  tunes.  To 
write  the  sketch  of  each  tune  and  print  it,  in  connection  with  the  music, 
is  an  expensive  and  arduous  labor  and  undertaking  that  no  author  before 
has  been  willing  to  attempt  or  expend.  However,  it  will  greatly  add  to 
the  interest  of  all  tunes  to  know  something  of  their  composition  and 
the  history  of  the  composer  of  the  words  and  music,  and  much  benefit 
gained  in  reading  them  by  one  knowing  the  source  from  whence  they 
came. 
12.  New  rudiments  have  been  composed,  arranged  and  so  compiled 
as  to  embrace  all  the  old  features,  and  at  the  same  time  to  get  all  ma -
terial  modern  improvements.  These  rules  are  so  arranged  as  any  one 
who  cares  to  do  so,  can  learn  how  to  sing  or  play  at  home.  They  are 
so  fixed  as  to  apply  to  any  notation,  it  matters  not  whether  in  four  and 
seven  shape,  or  round  notes.  They  are  made  simple  and  easy  to  under -
stand,  possessing  many  new  features  and  additions  not  heretofore 
printed,  a  very  large  dictionary,  and  many  things  which  will  prove  help -
ful  in  the  study  of  musie. 
13.  All  the  plates  from  which  the  book  is  printed  are  brand  new 
and  will  give  the  best  results.  Nearly  all  the  notes  and  all  other  musical 
characters  are  first  class. 
14.  A  new  Appendix  of  valuable  tunes  and  anthems  has  been  added. 
Quite  a  lot  of  this  was  once  in  the  Sacred  Harp.  It  has  been  revised 
and  some  of  these  tunes  are  new  in  many  respects.  The  other  tunes  are 
selected  from  authors  whose  reputations  are  so  well  known  by  music 
people  which  guarantees  that  no  tune  that  comes  from  their  pens  ever 
fails  to  prove  they  are  of  the  best  class  of  sacred  music.  The  new  music 
in  this  addition  is  also  up  to  the  top  of  standard  sacred  tunes,  and  by 
composers  who  do  not  in  any  case  put  forward  any  but  superior  tunes. 
Some  of  them  will  at  first  require  careful  skill  to  render  them  properly, 
but  when  fully  understood,  they  will  prove  to  be  of  very  high  class 
sacred  music.  All  of  these  tunes  are  arranged  in  dispersed  harmony, 
and  in  perfect  accord  with  all  the  other  music  in  the  book. 
15.  In  the  first  of  the  book  there  has  been  some  new  music  added, 
but  not  in  any  way  to  interfere  with  the  music  therein  as  heretofore 
arranged,  but  to  fill  pages  where  they  are  placed,  and  at  the  same  time 
utilize  all  the  pages  in  good  music.  In  one  or  two  cases  the  plates  made 
lap  over  so  as  to  displace  the  page  or  pages.  In  order  to  keep  the  book 
as  it  has  been  heretofore,  we  have  put  some  tunes  on  pages  following  by 
continuation  of  same  page,  by  adding  to  the  same  A  or  B.  (See  page 
253.) 
We  are  not  presenting  the  book  with  high  sounding  praises,  but  feel 
justified  in  claiming  that  it  is  the  best  song  and  tune  book  of  its  kind 
to  be  found  in  all  the  country.  We  are  presenting  it  to  the  people  with 
the  earnest  prayer  of  this  committee  that  it  may  in  the  name  of  the 
great  “Master  of  all  musie”  accomplish  that  whereunto  it  is  sent. 
J.  S.  JAMES, 
Chairman. 
Atlanta,  Ga.,  August  11,  1911. 
VI 
