72 
Key  of  F  Major. 
THE  WEARY  SOUL. 
“  Come  unto  me.  all  ye  that  labour  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you  rest.’*—Matt.  11:  28. 
J.  T.  White,  1844. 
(Ye  weary,  heavy  laden  souls,  Who  are  oppressed  and  sore,  1  Tho’  chilling  winds  and  beating  rains,  And  enemies  surrounding  us, 
I  Ye  travelers  thro’the  wilderness  To  Canaan’s  peaceful  shore,  J  And  waters  deep  and  cold,  Take  courage  and  be  bold. 
f  Farewell,  my  brethren  in  the  Lord,  Who  are  for  Canaan  bound,  1  1  hope  that  I  shall  meet  you  there  In  mansions  of  eternal  bliss, 
I  And  should  we  never  meet  again  Till  Gabriel’s  trump  shall  sound,  j  On  that  delightful  shore,  Where  parting  is  no  more. 
J.  T.  White,  the  author  of  the  above  tune,  was  a  nephew  of  B.  F.  White.  He  moved  to  Texas  about  thirty  years  ago;  taught  singing  school  in  that  State  for 
thirty  years;  was  alive  when  last  heard  from,  over  ninety  years  of  age.  See  further  statements  about  him  in  James’  “  History  of  the  Sacred  Harp,”  page  51. 
The  words  of  “  The  Weary  Soul  ”  are  taken  from  “  Zion’s  Songster,”  page  185,  seventh  edition,  1832. 
BELLEVUE,  ns. 
“  He  hath  said  I  will  never  leave  thee,  nor  forsake  thee.”—Heb.  18  :  5. 
In  the  “  Sacred  Harp  ”  this  tune  is  credited  to  Z.  Chambers. 
George  Keith,  1787.  Key  of  b|z  Major.  It  was  originally  written  by  Anne  STEEEE. 
i.  How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  saints  of  the  Lord,  What  more  can  He  say  than  to  you  He  hath  said, 
Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  his  excellent  word,  You  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  have  fled. 
2.  “Fear  not,  I  am  with  thee;  O  be  not  dismayed  !  I’ll  strengthen  thee,  help  thee,  and  cause  thee  to  stand, 
I,  1  am  thy  God,  and  will  still  give  thee  aid;  Upheld  by  my  righteous,  omnipotent  hand. 
3.  “When  through  the  deep  waters  I  call  thee  to  go,  For  I  will  be  with  thee,  thy  troubles  to  bless, 
The  rivers  of  sorrow  shall  not  overflow;  '  And  sanctify  to  thee  thy  deepest  distress. 
4.  “The  soul  that  on  Jesus  hath  leaned  for  repose  The  soul,  though  all  hell  should  endeavor  to  shake, 
I  will  not,  I  will  not  desert  to  his  foes,  I’ll  never,  no  never,  no  never  forsake.” 
Miss  Anne  Steele  was  the  daughter  of  a  Baptist  minister.  She  was  born  in  England,  in  1706,  at  Broughton  Hampshire,  spending  her  life  there.  She  died  in 
1778.  In  1760  and  1780  volumes  of  her  works  in  verse  and  prose  were  published,  and  many  hymns,  psalms,  poems,  and  tunes  are  credited  to  her.  Mr.  Chambers 
made  a  few  alterations  in  the  above  tune.  The  original  title  to  this  hymn  was  “  Precious  Promises.” 
George  Keith  was  a  Baptist  minister,  publisher  and  bookseller.  He  wrote  a  number  of  hymns.  Some  high  authorities  claim  that  Robert  Keene,  a  member  of 
Dr.  John  Rippon’s  church  (Baptist)  of  London  composed  the  above  hymn.  “  How  Firm  a  Foundation  ”  was  the  favorite  of  President  Andrew  Jackson’s  wife,  and 
on  his  deathbed  he  requested  that  it  be  sung.  It  was  also  a  favorite  of  General  Robert  E.  Lee,  the  greatest  of  modern  generals,  and  it  was  sung  at  his  funeral. 
Copyright,  1909,  by  J.  S.  James. 
