52  ALBION.  S.  M. 
“  When  two  or  three  are  gathered  together  in  my  name,  there  am  I  in  the  midst  of  them.’*—Matt.  18  :  20. 
Isaac  Watts,  1707.  Key  of  G  Major.  Psalmist,  hymn  767.  Boyd. 
i.  Come,  ye  that  love  the  Lord,  And  let  your  joys  be  known;  Join  in  a  song  with  sweet  accord,  While  ye  surround  His  throne,  While  ye  surround  His  throne. 
2.  Let  those  re-fuse  to  sing  Who  nev-er  knew  our  God,  But  serv-ants  of  the  heav’nly  King  May  speak  their  joys  abroad,  May  speak  their  joys  a-broad. 
3.  The  men  of  grace  have  found  Glo-ry  be-gun  be-low;  Ce-les-tial  fruit  on  earth-ly  ground  From  faith  and  hope  may  grow,  From  faith  and  hope  may  grow. 
Isaac  Watts  was  born  in  1674  and  died  in  1748.  He  was  an  English  Congregationalist.  He  was  one  of  the  greatest  hymn  writers  in  all  Christendom.  Other 
sketches  of  his  life  and  works  can  be  found  in  other  parts  of  this  book. 
This  tune  is  credited  in  the  “  Southern  Harmony,”  1835,  to  Mr.  Boyd  (see  page  23),  and  “  Missouri  Harmony,”  1837,  page  49.  We  have  been  unable  to  obtain 
any  data  about  Mr.  Boyd.  The  tune  also  appears  in  earlier  volumes  of  Mr.  Holden  and  other  song  writers.  The  date  of  its  composition  is  unknown. 
CHARLESTOWN.  8s,  7s. 
Key  of  F  Major.  “  Jesus,  thou  Son  of  David,  have  mercy  on  me.  And  many  charged  him  that  he  should  hold  his  peace.”—Mark  10:  47,  48.  STEPHEN  JENKS,  1805. 
i.  “  Mer-cy,  O  Thou  Son  of  Da-vid,”  Thus  blind  Bar-ti 
me-us  prayed,  “Oth-ers  by  Thy  word  are  sav  -  ed,  Now  to  me  af  -  ford  Thine  aid.” 
2.  Ma-ny  for  his  cry  -  ing  chid  him,  But  he  called  the  loud-er  still, 
Till  the  gra-cious  Sav  -  iour  bid  him,“Come  and  ask  me  what  you  will.” 
Stephen  Jenks,  New  Canaan,  Conn.,  published  the  “  Delights  of  Harmony  ”  in  1805.  Twenty-six  of  the  tunes  in  that  book  were  composed  by  him,  and  it  was 
published  on  subscription.  He  removed  to  Thompson,  and  died  there  in  1856.  He  was  a  ready  composer. 
“  Charleston  ”  is  among  the  old  tunes,  and  has  been  printed  a  great  many  years,  early  in  the  song  books  of  the  nineteenth  century,  and  by  Stephen  Jenks  about 
1805.  He  was  a  musician  of  some  note.  It  was  first  published  in  the  South  by  William  Walker  in  the  “  Southern  Harmony,”  page  23.  The  words  of  this  hymn 
are  taken  from  “  Mercer’s  Cluster,”  page  281,  by  Jesse  Mercer,  in  1823,  3d  edition.  None  of  the  books  at  our  command  give  the  name  of  the  author  of  the  words. 
