RUDIMENTS  OF  MUSIC.  Continued. 
COMPOUND.  | 
12.  How  is  the  first  mode  of  compound  time  known? 
By  the  figures  six  over  four.  It  has  a  dotted  semi-breve  for  measure  • 
notes,  rendered  in  two  and  one-half  seconds,  two  beats  to  the  measure,  down 
and  up,  accented  on  first  and  fourth  parts  of  the  measure.  It  is  also  called 
six-four  time.  (Example  —). 
13.  How  about  the  second  mode  of  compound  time? 
It  is  known  by  six  over  eight.  One  and  one-half  seconds  to  the  measure, 
two  beats,  down  and  up,  accented  on  the  first  and  fourth  parts  of  the 
measure.  It  has  a  dotted  minim  for  a  beat  note.  (Example  below.) 
In  some  of  the  books  this  is  called  Compound  Double  and  in  some  Sextuple 
time. 
14.  What  about  intermediate  tones? 
They  occur  between  the  regular  tones  of  a  key. 
15.  In  the  major  key  when  do  we  find  intermediate  tones? 
Between  1  and  2,  2  and  3,  4  and  5,  6  and  7.  (Example  below.) 
16.  Arc  there  any  other  modes? 
Yes,  there  are  also  modes  of  time  as  follows: 
They  arc  not  so  frequently  used  by  composers  as 
those  mentioned  above. 
17.  What  arc  the  Fractions,  placed  at  the  beginning  of  a  composition? 
The  yarc  called  Numerator  and  Denominator. 
18.  What  docs  the  Numerator  denote? 
The  number  of  pulsation  in  a  measure. 
19.  What  does  the  Denominator  denote? 
Tell  us  the  kinds  of  notes  which  is  referred  to  in  each  pulsation  of  the 
measure. 
LESSON  V. 
1.  What  does  the  second  department  in  music  treat  of? 
Melodics. 
2.  What  is  Melodics? 
That  department  of  vocal  elementary  instructions  which  relates  to  the 
pitch  of  tones. 
MELODIES. 
3.  What  is  pitch  as  applied  to  music? 
The  acuteness  and  gravity  of  any  particular  sound.  Pitch  can  most  sci -
entifically  be  defined  as  a  rate  of  vibration.  Rapid  vibrations  means  a  high 
tone;  slow  vibrations  a  deep  tone. 
4.  What  is  a  Diatonic? 
Naturally  preceding  in  the  order  of  the  degrees  of  a  natural  scale,  in -
cluding  tones  and  semi-tones. 
9 
5.  What  is  a  Diatonic  scale? 
The  different  graduations  of  tones  or  gamut  arranged  in  a  preparee 
order  in  conformity  to  some  particular  key. 
6.  What  is  a  Diatonic  Major  scale? 
That  in  which  the  same  tones  occur  between  the  second  and  third  sev -
enth  and  eighth,  ascending,  and  between  eighth  and  seventh  and  fourth  and 
third,  descending. 
7.  What  is  a  Minor  Diatonic  scale? 
(See  example  of  Minor  Mode  for  the  Diatonic  scale.)  That  in  which 
the  same  tones  occur  between  the  second  and  third  seventh  and  eighth,  as -
cending  between  fifth  and  sixth,  and  second  and  third  descending. 
8.  What  is  a  scale? 
The  succession  of  tones  upon  which  any  music  is  built. 
9.  What  is  a  Chromaticscale? 
(See  “Chromatic  scale.”  A  scale  in  which  all  the  tones,  intermediate 
■  and  diatonic,  occur  in  successive  order. 
10.  Why  is  this  scale  called  Chromatic? 
Because  of  the  fact  that  the  intermediate  tones  were  formerly  written 
in  colors. 
11.  What  are  Accidentals? 
Sharps,  Flats  or  cancel  used  throughout  a  composition  for  the  purpose 
of  introducing  intermediate  tones  or  a  modulation. 
12.  What  is  the  rule  for  their  continuance? 
Accidentals  continue  their  significance  throughout  the  measure  which  they 
occur. 
13.  What  is  1  and  8  in  any  key  called? 
The  key  tone  or  tonic. 
14.  What  is  the  difference  between  a  scale  and  a  key? 
A  scale  implies  a  certain  order  of  succession;  while  the  family  of  tones 
of  which  it  is  formed,  called  the  key,  may  be  used  in  any  possible  order. 
15.  What  other  difference  is  there? 
A  scale  must  have  eight  tones,  while  the  key  has  seven. 
16.  What  is  the  order  of  intervals  in  the  major  key? 
Major  seconds  must  occur  between  1  and  2  and  2,  3,  4  and  4,  5,  5  and  6,  6 
and  7.  Minor  seconds  must  occur  between  3  and  4,  and  7  and  8. 
Note—Further  explanation  of  seconds  explained  elsewhere. 
17.  What  is  a  Signature? 
Sharps  or  flats  placed  at  the  beginning  of  the  composition  are  called 
signatures,  which  indicate  the  key  of  the  scale. 
18.  How  many  major  keys  are  there  in  general  use? 
There  are  thirteen. 
19.  Name  them. 
C,  G,  D,  A,  E,  B,  F  sharp,  F,  B&,  E&,  A6,  D6  and  Gb. 
20.  What  is  a  Minor  scale? 
A  scale  in  which  the  intervals  from  2  to  3,  and  from  5  to  6,  are  minor. 
21.  What  is  the  order  of  intervals  in  the  minor  scale? 
Minor  seconds  must  occur  between  2  and  3,  5  and  6,  7  and  8.  Major 
seconds  must  occur  between  1  and  2,  3  and  4,  4  and  5,  while  from  6  to  7  must 
be  an  augmented  second. 
