Philip  Doddridge,  1735.  Key  of  C  Major. 
NINETY=THIRD  PSALM.  S.  M. 
“  By  grace  ye  are  saved.”—Eph.  2  :  5. 
Jeremiah  Ingalls,  1805. 
31 
1.  Grace!  ’tis  a  charm-ing  sound,  Har-mo-nious  to  the 
ear;  Heav’n  with  the  ech  -  0  shall  re 
sound,  And  all  the  earth  shall  hear. 
2.  Grace  first  con-trived  the 
way  To  save  re  -  bel  -  lious  man;  And  all 
the  steps  that  grace  dis  - 
play,  Which  drew  the  won-drous  plan. 
3.  Grace  taught  my  wan-d’ring  feet 
To  tread  the  heav’n-ly  road;  And  new  sup  -  plies  each  hour  I 
meet,  While  press-ing  on  to  God. 
4.  Grace  all  the  work  shall  crown  Through  ev-er-last  -  ing  days;  It  lays  in  heav’n  the  top  -  most  stone,  And  well  de  ■  serves  our  praise. 
This  hymn  is  on  “Salvation  by  Grace,”  from  the  author’s  hymns,  1755.  The  original  name  of  this  tune  was  “  Kentucky.”  Philip  Doddridge,  D.  D.,  the 
author  of  the  hymn,  was  born  in  London,  1702,  over  two  hundred  years  ago.  He  was  a  scholar  of  high  attainments;  was  ordained  to  the  Nonconformist 
ministry;  was  an  English  Congregationalist,  and  for  many  years  pastor  of  one  of  these  churches,  from  1829  to  the  time  of  his  death,  1852.  He  was  a  great  pulpit 
orator  and  theologian.  He  composed  many  standard  hymns  and  high-class  sacred  music. 
See  sketch  of  Jeremiah  Ingalls  under  the  tune  “  Northfield.”  He  is  the  author  of  some  of  the  best  music  of  those  who  composed  in  his  day,  and  many  of  his 
tunes  are  still  popular  with  the  church  people,  especially  in  the  United  States,  and  many  of  his  best  productions  are  in  the  leading  tune  and  hymn  books  of  to-day. 
This  tune  appears  in  Jeremiah  Ingall’s  “  Song  Books,”  beginning  1805  to  1820;  also  in  the  “  Southern  Harmony,”  by  Walker,  1835  and  1849,  by  same  author; 
in  the  “  Christian  Harmony,”  1866  and  1901.  See  “  Missouri  Harmony,”  page  31,  1837,  and  many  other  publications.  copyright,  1909,  by  j.  s.  James. 
WEBSTER.  S.  M. 
Isaac  Watts,  1707.  Key  of  G  Major.  “if  a  man  love  me,  he  will  keep  my  words.” 
i.  Come  we  who  love  the  Lord,  And  let  our  joys  be  known:  Join  in  a  song  with  sweet  ac  -  cord  And  thus  sur-round  the  throne. 
2.  Let  those  re  -  fuse  to  sing  who  nev  -  er  knew  our  God;  But  serv-ants  of  the  heav’n-ly  King  May  speak  their  joys  a  -  broad. 
3.  The  God  that  rules  on  high,  That  all  the  earth  sur  -  veys,  That  rides  up  -  on  the  storm-y  sky,  And  calms  the  roar  -  ing  sea. 
This  tune  appears  in  “  Southern  Harmony,”  1835,  by  William  Walker,  and  many  other  sacred  tune  books  prior  to  that  time.  The  original  name  was 
“Heavenly  Joys  on  Earth,”  appearing  in  Watts’  “  Hymns  of  Spiritual  Songs.” 
The  author  of  the  tune  “  Webster  ”  is  unknown,  it  having  appeared  in  a  large  number  of  song  books  for  the  last  sixty  years  without  being  credited  to  any  one. 
There  are  certain  claims,  however,  that  it  may  have  been  written  by  Corelli.  We  think  this  is  a  mistake.  The  tune  may  have  been  taken  from  a  melody  by 
Handel,  but  there  is  no  certainty  about  it. 
