RUDIMENTS  OF  MUSIC.  Continued. 
15.  What  are  the  names  of  the  ecclesiastical  forms  of  vocal  music? 
The  Chant,  the  Chord,  the  Hymn,  the  Sentence,  the  Anthem  ,the  Motet,  the 
Canta,  t  he  Mass  and  the  Oratorio. 
16.  What  is  a  Choral? 
A  simple  sacred  tune  of  one  or  more  periods,  designed  to  be  sung  in 
unison  by  the  congregation  as  an  act  of  divine  worship. 
17.  What  is  a  Chant? 
It  consists  of  words  recited  to  musical  tones  without  musical  measure. 
18.  What  is  a  Sentence? 
A  short  Scriptural  text  set  to  music.  It  seldom  extends  beyond  one 
or  two  periods. 
19.  What  is  a  Mass? 
A  sacred  composition  for  voices  with  accompaniment  in  several  move -
ments,  performed  at  the  celebrations  in  the  Roman  Catholic  church. 
20.  What  is  a  Canta? 
A  composition  for  voices  with  accompaniment  consisting  of  solos  and 
choruses. 
21.  What  is  a  Glee? 
A  composition  of  three  or  more  voices,  generally  of  a  high  and  secular 
character.  It  is  of  modern  English  origin. 
22.  What  is  a  Hymn? 
A  song  of*thanksgiving  to  God.  A  choir  tune  of  one  or  two  periods. 
23.  What  is  a  Duet? 
A  piece  of  music  written  for  two  voices  or  instruments. 
24.  What  is  a  Trio? 
A  piece  of  music  written  for  three  voices  or  instruments. 
25.  What  is  a  Quartet? 
A  piece  of  music  written  for  four  voices  or  instruments  . 
METRE. 
1.  What  is  Metre? 
Measure  verse  arrangements  of  poetical  feet,  or  long  and  short  syllables 
in  force;  the  succession  of  accents  in  music. 
2.  What  is  lambic  or  Iambus? 
A  poetical  and  metrical  foot,  consisting  of  one  short  not  accented  and  one 
long  accent  in  the  syllable. 
3.  What  is  an  Anepest? 
A  music  fort  consisting  of  two  short  notes  or  syllables  and  a  long  one. 
The  following  letters  apply  to  the  different  tunes  in  music: 
C.  M.  means  Common  Metre;  a  stanza  of  four  lines  in  lambic  measure. 
The  syllables  of  which  are  S-6-8-6. 
L.  M.  means  Long  Metre,  four  lines  in  lambic  measure,  each  line  containing 
eight  syllables. 
S.  M.,  Short  Metre,  consists  of  four  lines  in  lambic  measure,  6-6-8-6. 
19 
S.  P.  M.  means  Short  Particular  Metre,  consisting  of  six  lines  in  lambic 
measure,  but  the  syllables  are  as  follows:  6-6-8-6-6-8. 
P.  M.,  Particular  Metre.  The  poem  or  words  have  peculiarities  or  ir -
regularities  which  prevents  it  from  being  classified.  Such  poems  or  words 
require  their  own  special  tunes. 
L.  P.  M.,  Long  Particular  Metre,  6  lines,  in  which  lambic  measure,  each 
line  containing  eight  syllables. 
M.  H.,  Metre  Hallelujah.  A  stanza  of  six  lines  in  lambic  measure,  the 
syllables  of  which  being  6-6-6-6-S-8. 
C.  M.  H.,  Common  Meter  Hallelujah.  A  stanza  of  six  lines  in  a  meas -
ure,  syllables  S-8-6-8-8-6. 
C.  P.  M.,  Common  Particular  Metre.  A  stanza  of  six  lines,  lambic  meas -
ure,  the  syllables  in  each  being  8-8-6-8-S-6. 
C.  M.  D.,  Common  Metre  Double.  Eight  lines  of  lambic  measure. 
M.  T.  means  metre  12’s,  designated  at  12-12,  consisting  of  a  stanza  of  four 
lines  in  anapestic,  each  line  containing  twelve  syllables. 
Metres  8  and  7s,  consisting  of  four  lines  in  trochaic  measure,  syllables 
S-7-8-7. 
Metres  11,  consisting  of  four  lines  in  anapestic,  each  line  containing 
eleven  syllables. 
Metres  7s,  consists  of  four  lines  in  trochaic  measure,  each  containing 
seven  syllables. 
Metres  6  and  7s  consists  in  numbers  7-6-6. 
Metre  10  and  11  generally  consist  of  four  lines  of  anapestic  measure,  the 
numbers  being  10-10-11  11,  or  six  lines  in  lambic  as  follows:  10-10  10  10-11-11. 
SIGNS  USED  IN  MUSIC. 
A  dot  above  or  below  a  note  or  rest  signifies  staccato.  (It.)  (Star- 
ka-to.)  Detached,  distinct,  separate  from  each  other. 
A  dot  after  a  note  or  rest  is  a  sign  of  length. 
A  dash  a  bove  or  below  a  note  signifies  staccato,  as  above. 
A  slur  bind  tie  is  a  curve  drawn  over  or  under  two  or  more 
notes,  signifying  that  they  are  to  be  executed  legato.  A  slur  over  two  notes 
is  called  a  short  slur.  In  vocal  notation  it  covers  a  number  of  notes  to 
be  sung  in  one  breath. 
Crescendo.  (It.)  (Kre-shendo.)  Denoting  an  increase  power  of 
tone,  and  is  often  indicated  by  the  sign. 
Diminuendo.  (It.)  (De-me-noo-en-do).  Diminishing  gradually 
the  intensity  of  power  of  the  tone  and  Rinforzando,  accented.  (It.) 
(Rin-for-tsan-do.)  Strengthened;  reinforced;  a  reinforcement  of  tone  or  ex -
pression,  indicating  that  either  a  single  note  or  chord  or  several  notes  are  to 
be  played  with  emphasis,  although  not  with  the  suddenness  of  a  Sforzando 
Forzando  or  Sforzato,  accented. 
