30  ROCHESTER.  C.  M. 
•‘And  they  sing  the  song  of  Moses  the  servant  of  God,  and  the  song  of  the  amb."—Rev.  15  :  3. 
ISAAC  WaTTS,  1707.  Key  of  A  Major. 
i.  Come,let  us  join  our  cheerful  songs 
With  an  -  gels  round  the  throne;  Ten  thousand  thousand  are  their  tongues,  But  all  their  joys  are  one. 
2.  “Worthy  the  Lamb  that  died,”  they  cry, 
“Wor-thy  the 
lips  re  -  ply,  Heav’  n  and  earth  shall  pass  a-way:  “For  He  was  slain  for 
us. 
Lamb,”  our 
3.  The  whole  cre-a  -  tion  joins  in  one 
To  bless  the  sa  -  cred 
name  Of  Him  who  sits  .up  -  on  the  throne, 
And  to  a  -  dore  the  Lamb. 
4.  Let  all  that  dwell  a  -  bove  the  sky,  And  air  and  earth  and  seas,  Conspire  to  lift  Thy  glor-ies  high.  And  speak  Thy  end-less  praise. 
The  words  of  this  hymn  were  first  published  in  the  author’s  “  Hymn  Book  and  Spiritual  Songs,”  1707,  the  original  title  being  “  Chrtet  Jesus,  the  Lamb  of  God, 
Worshiped  by  all  Creation.”  Changes  in  some  of  the  verses  have  been  made.  See  remarks  in  reference  to  Dr.  Watts  on  first  page  of  this  publication.  This  tune 
appears  in  many  of  the  earliear  publications  of  American  composers.  See  William  Billings,  Andrew  Law,  Lowell  Mason,  “  Missouri  Harmony,”  1837,  and  earlier 
editions;  “Southern  Harmony,”  1835  and  1849;  “Christian  Harmony,”  1866,  and  later  books. 
PROSPECT.  L.  M. 
Isaac  Watts,  1707.  Key  of  C  Major.  “  Blessed  is  the  dead  who  die  in  the  lyord.”—Rev.  14  :  13. 
i.  Why  should  we  start  and  fear  to  die?  Whattim’rous  worms  we  mortals  are!  Death  is  the  gate  to 
end-less  joy,  And  yet  we  dread  to  en  -  ter  there. 
2.  The  pains,  the  groans,  the  dying  strife,  F.ight  our  approaching  souls  away;  And  we  shrink  back  a  -  gain  to 
life,  Fond  of  our  pris-on  and  our  clay. 
3.  O  if  my  Lord  would  come  and  meet,  My  soul  would  stretch  her  wings  in  haste,  Fly  fearless  through  death’s  iron  gate,  Nor  feel  the  terrors  as  she  passed. 
4.  Je  -  sus  can  make  a  dy-ing  bed  Feel  soft  as  down-y  pil-lows^are,  While  on  His  breast  I  lean  my  head,  And  breathe  my  life  out  sweetly  there. 
The  original  title  to  this  hymn  was  “  Christ’s  Presence  Makes  Death  Easy.”  Full  sketch  of  Dr.  Watts  is  given  in  other  parts  of  this  book.  He  was  born  in 
1674  and  died  in  1748.  He  was  one  of  the  greatest  ministers  in  the  world.  “  Prospect”  is  one  of  the  older  melodies.  It  appears  in  “Southern  Harmony,”  by 
Walker  page  92,  in  1835;  also  “  Christian  Harmony,”  and  many  other  books,  but  none  give  the  author  of  the  music.  Copyright,  1909,  by  J-  s.  James. 
