82  BOUND  FOR  CANAAN. 
“Ye  see  him  not,  yet  believing  ye  rejoice  with  joy  unspeakable  and  full  of  glory.”—1  Pet.  1:  8. 
REV.  John  Leland,  1833.  Key  of  B  Flat  Major. 
1  2  CHORUS. 
E.  J.  King,  1844. 
And  from’the  flowingTountataDrink  everiasta^to’ve.  way  t0  Canaan ’  my  W  on  my  wav  to  Danaan,To  the  new  Jerusalem. 
1  2 
|  I’m  on  my  way  to  Canaan,  I’m  on  my  way  to  Canaan,  I’m  on  my  way  to  Canaan,To  the  new  Jerusalem. 
When  shall  I  be  delivered  from  this  world  of  sin, 
And  with  my  blessed  Jesus,  Drink  endless  pleasures  in? 
1  2 
J  But  now  I  am  a  soldier,  My  Cap-tain’s  gone  before, 
I  He’s  given  me  my  or-ders,  And  bids  me  not  give  o’er. 
1  2 
|  I’m  on  my  way  to  Canaan,  I’m  on  my  way  to  Canaan,  I’m  on  my  way  to  Canaan,Tothenew  Jerusalem. 
The  original  name  of  this  song  was  “  Evening  Song.”  Rev.  John  Leland  was  born  in  1754  and  died  in  1844.  He  was  a  Baptist  preacher.  In  1801  he 
took  a  preaching  tour  from  his  home  in  Massachusetts  to  Washington  with  his  Cheshire  cheese,  which  made  his  name  national  on  account  of  that  trip.  He 
wrote  his  own  hymns.  He  composed  the  hymn,  “The  Day  is  Passed  and  Gone,  the  Evening  Shades  Appear.”  The  farmers  of  Cheshire,  for  whom  he  was 
pastor,  conceived  the  idea  of  sending  the  biggest  cheese  in  America  to  President  Jefferson.  Mr.  Leland  offered  to  go  to  Washington  with  an  ox  team  with  it 
and  preach  along  the  way,  which  he  did.  The  cheese  weighed  1.450  pounds.  He  died  with  great  hope  of  rest  in  the  glory  world. 
E.  J.  King  made  material  changes  in  the  tune,  and  re-arranged  it  about  the  year  1844.  He  prepared  it  for  “Sacred  Harp.” 
EDGEFIELD.  8s. 
John  Newton,  1779.  Key  of  F  Sharp  Minor.  “None  upon  earth  that  I  desire  esides  thee.—Ps.  73  :  25.  J.  T.  WHITE,  1844. 
How  tedious  and  tasteless  the  hours  When  Jesus  no  longer  I  see!  Have  lost  all  their  sweetness  to  me, 
Sweet  prospects,  sweet  birds,  and  sweet  flowers,  Have  lost  all  their  sweetness  to  me. 
See  sketch  of  John  Newton,  author  of  the  words,  under  tune  “New  Britain,”  page  45-  T.  White  prepared  this  tune  for  “Sacred  Harp,”  in  1844- 
