20  RUDIMENTS. 
In  vocal  music  would  mean  Missa  di  Voce  (which  see)  Instrumental 
music  it  would  also  mean  crescendo  and  diminuendo. 
Hold,  a  character  indicating  that  the  time  of  the  note,  or  rest  is  to  be  pro -
longed;  To  such  length  of  time  as  the  director,  leader  or  performer  may  desire  to 
give  the  best  effect  to  the  music. 
Segno.  A  sign  showing  that  the  music  is  to  be  repeated  from  the  sign 
above  indicated. 
Repeat  preceding  measure. 
Is  double  sharp. 
Repeat  signs  in  different  arrange -
ments  of  music,  instrumental  and 
vocal. 
Redite.  Repeat  words.  Thumb  (pfts-music.)  American  Fingering. 
Added  lines  to  call  attention  to  repetition  dots.  Bis  is  also  sometimes  used 
as  a  repeat  mark. 
Mordent  and  Praller.  Breathing  Mark. 
Trill:  consists  of  a  rapid  alteration  of  the  printed  note  and  the  next  note 
above,  to  the  value  of  the  printed  note. 
Continued. 
This  stgn  indicates  the  continuation  of  the  trill,  or  an  octave.- 
Repeat  figure  of  eight  notes.  Repeat  preceding  figure  of  sixteen  notes?. 
A  stave.  A  bar.  A  double  bar? 
Grace  notes. 
The  coda  mark.  First  time  of  playing  disregard  the  sign.  Second  time 
after  D.  C.  skip  from  this  sign  to  the  coda,  Sometimes  the  sign  is  also  placed  at 
the  coda. 
Coda  (It.)  (ko-da.)  The  end;  a  few  bars  added  to  the  end  of  a  piece  of  music 
to  make  a  more  effective  termination.  From  the  Latin,  “Cauda*’—a  tail.  The  coda? 
originally  a  few  added  chords  after  the  completion  of  the  musical  form. 
CLEFS.  Clefs  are  keys  or  characters  used  to 
determfne  the  name  of  pitch  or  the  notes  on  the 
staff  to  which  it  is  prefixed.  The  clef  began  in 
music  about  900;  there  were  then  no  notes.  G  Clef,  C  Clef  and  F  Clef. 
Signatures.  Figures  or  signs  in  the  form  of  a  fraction,  placed  at  t^ e 
beginning  of  a  piece  of  music  to  indicate  the  time,  but  very  little  now 
Time:  That  which  governs  the  measure  of  sounds  in  regard  to  their 
continuence  or  duration.  The  speed  of  rythm.  The  rapidity  with  which  the  natu -
ral  accents  follow  each  other. 
CANON.  A  Round;  four  Parts  in  One.  7s. 
Welcome,  welcome,  ev’-ry  guest,  Welcome  to  our  music  feast:  Mu  -  sic 
a  * 
is 
our  on-ly  cheer,  Fills  both  soul  and  rav  -  ish’d  ear. 
Sa-cred  Nine,  teach  us  the  mood,—Sweetest  notes  to  be  ex-plored,-Soft  -  ly  swell  the  tremb-ling  air,  To  complete  our  con-cert  fair. 
FIRE  ALARM.  In  Four  Parts, 
1  2^  4= 
Bells  are  ringing,  What’s  the  matter,  See  the  smoke  and  hear  the  clatter,  Fire,  Fire,  Fire, 
Fire,  Pour  on 
wa-ter 
Pour  on 
wa-ter. 
