MINISTER’S  FAREWELL.  C.  M 
69 
Ke y  of  G  Major. 
“  A  friend  loveth  at  all  times.”—Prov.  17  :  17. 
i.  {  P ear  f riend s,  farewell!  I  do  you  tell,  Since  you  and  I  must  part;  "I  Your  love  to  me  has  been  most  free,  How  can  I  bear  to  jour-ney  where 
1 1  go  away  and  here  you  stay,  But  still  w’ere  joined  in  heart.  J  Your  conversation  sweet;  With  you  I  cannot  meet! 
2  Yet  do  I  find  my  heart  inclined 
To  do  my  work  below; 
When  Christ  doth  call  I  trust  I  shall 
Be  ready  then  to  go. 
I  leave  you  all,  both  great  and  small, 
In  Christ’s  encircling  arms. 
Who  can  you  save  from  the  cold  grave 
And  shield  you  from  all  harms. 
3  I  trust  you’ll  pray,  both  night  and  day, 
And  keep  your  garments  white, 
For  you  and  me,  that  we  may  be 
The  children  of  the  light. 
If  you  die  first,  anon  you  must, 
The  will  of  God  be  done  : 
I  hope  the  Lord  will  you  reward 
With  an  immortal  crown. 
4  If  I’m  called  home  whilst  I  am  gone 
Indulge  no  tears  for  me; 
I  hope  to  sing  and  praise  my  King 
To  all  eternity; 
Millions  of  years  over  the  spheres 
Shall  pass  in  sweet  repose, 
While  beauty  bright  unto  my  sight 
Thy  sacred  sweets  disclose. 
5  I  long  to  ago,—then  farewell,  woe, 
My  soul  will  be  at  rest; 
No  more  shall  I  complain  nor  sigh, 
But  taste  the  heavenly  feast. 
O  may  we  meet  and  be  complete, 
And  long  together  dwell, 
And  serve  the  Lord  with  one  accord, 
And  so,  dear  friends,  farewell! 
This  tune  was  published  in  a  number  of  song  books  by  different  authors  early  in  the  nineteenth  century,  and  in  all  the  revised  editions  of  the  “  Sacred 
Harp,”  by  White  and  King,  since  1844.  None  of  these  publications  give  any  information  about  the  author  of  the  music  or  words.  Publications  of  a  more 
recent  date  have  changed  the  tune  in  several  respects,  and  put  their  names  to  it  as  the  author.  The  original  author  is  unknown.  See  “  Southern  Harmony,” 
by  William  Walker,  page  14,  1835. 
