RUDIMENTS  OF  MUSIC.  Continued. 
hearing.  When  two  or  more  sounds  are  made  at  the  same  time  and  fully 
agree  with  each  other  and  blend  together,  they  are  musical  and  a  succession 
of  such  sounds  are  said  to  produce  melody  and  harmony.  When  they  are  ir -
regular  ,rough  and  do  not  blend  together  so  as  to  produce  melody  and  harmony 
they  are  dominated  common  noise;  grating  sounds. 
LESSON  II. 
1.  What  distinct  property  has  every  musical  tone  or  sound? 
As  above  stated  it  has  three;  it  may  be  long  or  short;  high  or  low; 
loud  or  soft. 
2.  Tones  or  sounds  in  music  being  long  or  short,  high  or  low,  loud  or 
soft,  from  this  arises  how  many  departments  or  known  properties  of  music? 
There  are  three  departments.  Some  music  writers  claim  four.  They  are 
usually  treated  only  in  three  departments. 
3.  Give  the  names  of  the  three  departments. 
The  first  is  (1)  Rhythmics,  (2)  Melodies,  (3)  Dynamics. 
4.  What  is  rhythmics? 
Rhythmics  is  the  division  of  musical  ideas  or  sentences  into  regular  metri -
cal  portions;  represents  the  regular  pulsation  of  music.  It  relates  to  all  in 
music  regarding  time. 
5.  Of  what  does  it  treat? 
It  treats  of  the  length  of  musical  tones  or  sounds  which  are  represented 
by  syllables  or  characters  called  notes.  Such  notes  are  placed  on  the  music 
staff  in  each  tune  as  may  be  necessary  to  make  the  tune  desired.  Under  its 
provisions  and  sub-divisions  it  is  to  music  what  time  is  to  nature. 
6.  Does  rhythmics  treat  of  tone  lengths,  notes  and  rests? 
Yes. 
7.  What  are  the  various  tone  lengths  in  common  use  called  or  named 
relatively  ? 
Whole,  half,  quarter,  eighth,  sixteenth,  thirty-second,  dotted  whole,  dotted 
half,  dotted  quarter,  dotted  eighth  and  dotted  sixteenth. 
8.  How  are  the  y  represented? 
They  are  represented  by  syllables  of  different  forms  called  notes,  which 
are  named  according  to  the  length  each  represent.  See  length  of  notes  and 
rests  as  heretofore  stated. 
9.  In  music  there  are  marks  of  rest,  how  do  we  reckon  them? 
By  different  characters  heretofore  given. 
LESSON  III—MEASURES. 
1.  How  is  music  divided  in  relation  to  measures? 
Music  is  divided  into  small  portions  called  “measures”  which  are  sub -
divided  into  accented  and  unaccented  portions. 
2.  What  is  a  measure? 
It  is  that  division  of  time  by  which  the  movement  of  the  music  is  regu -
lated.  It  is  the  space  between  two  bar  lines  on  the  staff. 
7 
3.  Are  there  parts  to  the  measure? 
Yes,  the  parts  of  a  measure  are  manifest  by  regular  counts,  pulsation  or 
motion  of  the  hand,  called  beats. 
4.  How  are  measures  represented? 
By  spaces  between  vertical  lines  called  bars,  extended  across  the  staff. 
5.  What  is  a  double  bar? 
A  double  bar  is  a  broad  bar  drawn  across  the  staff. 
6.  What  does  it  generally  denote? 
The  beginning  and  ending  of  a  line  of  poetry. 
7.  What  is  a  close? 
The  close  consists  of  two  double  broad  bars  drawn  across  the  staff. 
8.  What  is  beating  time? 
It  is  indicating  each  pulsation  of  a  measure  by  certain  motion  of  the  hand, 
while  engaged  in  rendering  any  composition  in  music.  It  keeps  time  with 
the  music. 
9.  What  is  a  slur? 
A  curved  line  connecting  two  or  more  notes  upon  different  de ¬ 
grees  of  the  staff,  thus: 
10.  What  is  a  tie? 
It  is  a  straight  line  connecting  two  or  more  notes  upon  the  same 
11.  What  is  the  rule  for  applying  words  when  the  slur  or  tie  occurs? 
Apply  one  syllable  of  the  word  to  as  many  notes  as  are  so  connected, 
12.  What  are  rests? 
Full  answer  and  example  given  under  head  of  Rests, 
13.  Staffs  when  connected  by  a  brace  are  called  what? 
It  is  called  a  score.  See  example, 
14  What  is  the  use  of  a  dot? 
It  adds  one-half  to  the  length  of  the  note  or  rest  after  which  it  is 
placed.  See  “Dotted  notes,”  page  seven. 
15.  How  is  the  repeat  made  and  what  does  it  mean? 
It  consists  of  dots  placed  in  the  space  at  the  left  hand  of  a  bar  and  shows 
that  the  preceding  passage  is  to  be  repeated.  And  if  the  repeat  is  on  the 
right  of  the  bar  it  denotes  repeat. 
