Isaac  Watts,  1709.  Key  of  Bfz. 
CUSSETA.  L.  M.  73 
Create  in  me  a  clean  heart,  O  God  ;  and  renew  a  right  spirit  within  me.”—Ps.  51:  10. 
Psalmist,  hymn  484.  John  Massengale.  Alto  by  S.  M.  Denson, 
i.  Show  pit-y,  Lord;  O  Lord,  for-give;  Let  a  re-pent  -  ing  reb  -  el  live:  Are  not  Thy  mer-cies  large  and  free?  May  not  a  sin  -  ner  trust  in  Thee  ?  Thee? 
2.  My  crimes,  though  great,  cannot  surpass  The  power  and  glory  of  Thy  grace;  Great  God,Thy  nature  hath  no  bound;  So  let  Thy  pardoning  love  be  found. 
3.  Y  et  save  a  trembling  sinner,  Lord,Whose  hope  still  hov’ring  round  Thy  word,Would  light  on  some  sweet  promise  there,Some  sure  support  against  despair. 
Prof.  John  Massengale,  sometime  between  1840  and  1844,  wrote  the  melody  of  the  above  tune,  and  composed  many  sacred  songs  in  the  “Sacred  Harp” 
and  other  books.  He  was  a  Georgian. 
See  remarks  about  Isaac  Watts  on  other  pages  of  this  book. 
ARLINGTON.  C.  M. 
“  Whosoever  therefore  shall  be  ashamed  of  me  and  of  my  words,  ...  of  him  also  shall  the  Son  of  man  be  ashamed,  when  he  cometh  into  the  glory  of  his  Father  with  the 
Isaac  Watts,  1720.  Key  of  G  Major.  holy  angels.”—mark  8:  38.  Thomas  A.  Arne,  1762. 
1.  I’m  not  a-shamed  to  own  my  Lord  Or  to  de-fend  His  cause;  Main  -  tain  the  hon  -  or  of  His  word,  The  gio  -  ry  of  His  cross. 
2.  Je  -  sus  my  God!  I  know  His  name;  His  name  is  all  my  trust;  Nor  will  He  put  my  soul  to  shame,  Nor  let  my  hope  be  lost. 
Dr.  Thomas  Augustine  Arne  composed  “  Arlington.”  He  was  born  in  London  in  1710,  and  attended  Eton  college.  Although  intended  for  the  legal  profession, 
he  gave  his  whole  time  to  music.  When  23  years  old  he  began  to  write  opera  for  his  sister  Susanna,  who  became  a  great  favorite  among  the  English  people 
He  was  engaged  as  a  composer  in  1759  when  he  received  from  Oxford  his  degree  of  Doctor  of  Music.  Later  in  life  he  turned  his  attention  to  oratorio  and  other  forms 
of  sacred  music.  He  was  the  first  to  introduce  female  voices  in  choir  singing.  He  died  in  1778,  chanting  hallelujahs,  it  is  said,  with  his  last  breath  The  tune, 
“Arlington,”  derives  its  name  from  a  Boston  street,  and  the  beautiful  chimes  of  Arlington  street  church  (Unitarian)  rings  its  music  on  special  occasions  as  it  has 
since  the  bells  were  tuned.  “  Arlington  ”  was  the  favorite  tune  for  the  above  hymn.  It  is  one  of  the  oldest  tunes  in  the  United  States.  It  has  been  cooied  in  most 
books  since  1762.  See  “Southern  Harmony,”  1835,  page  285,  by  Walker;  “  Missouri  Harmony,”  1837,  page  71,  P 
