RUDIMENTS  OF  MUSIC.  Continued. 
Major  Key.  Major  Mode.—The  mode  or  scale  in  which  the  third  from  the 
tonic  in  major. 
Major  Seventh—An  interval  consisting  of  five  tones  and  a  semi-tone. 
Major  Six—A  sixth  composed  of  four  tones  and  a  semi-tone. 
Major  Third—An  interval  containing  two  whole  tones  or  steps. 
Medium—Low  treble  performed  in  a  man’s  voice. 
Melodic  (It)  (Me-lod-ak)—Relating  to  melody. 
Melodic  Step—The  moving  of  a  voice  or  part  from  one  tone  to  the  fol -
lowing  one. 
Melodics—Having  melody,  musical;  applied  to  pleasing  sounds  upon  the 
ear. 
Measure.  (Fr.)  (Ma-zuF)—That  division  of  time  by  which  the  air  and 
movement  in  music  are  regulated.  The  space  between  two  bar  lines  on  the 
staff. 
Metre—Arrangements  of  poetical  feet  or  long  and  short  syllables  in  verse. 
The  successions  of  accents  in  music. 
Mezzo  (It.)  (Met-tso)—  Medium,  half.  In  a  middling  degree  or  manner 
rather  loud. 
Minor  Diatonic  Scale—Two  kinds;  one  when  the  semi-tones  fall  between 
second  and  third,  and  seventh  and  eighth,  both  in  ascending  and  descending. 
In  the  other  semi-tones  fall  between  the  second  and  third  and  descending  be -
tween  the  fifth  and  sixth  and  second  and  third. 
Minor  Key,  or  Mode-—A  scale  in  which  the  third  note  is  a  minor  third 
from  the  tonic. 
Minor  Second—The  smallest  interval  in  practical  use. 
Minor  Semi-tones—A  semi-tone  which  retains  its  place  or  letter  on  the  staff. 
Minor  Semi-tone—An  interval  containing  four  tones  and  two  semi-tones. 
Minor  Sixth-—An  interval  composed  of  three  tones  and  two  semi-tones. 
Minor  Third-—A  diatonic  interval  containing  three  semi-tones. 
Mode—A  particular  or  constituting  sounds. 
Mode,  Major—When  the  third  from  key  note  is  major. 
Mode,  Minor—When  the  third  degree  from  the  tonic  forms  the  interval 
of  a  minor  third. 
Modulation—A  modulation  into  some  other  than  the  original  key  and 
its  relatives. 
Moods—Contains  proportions  of  time,  modes  of  time. 
Movement—The  name  given  to  any  portion  of  a  composition  under  the 
same  measure  of  time. 
Mus.  Bac.—An  abbreviation  of  Bachelor  of  Music. 
Mus.  Doc.—Doctor  of  Music. 
Muses—In  mythology,  the  nine  sister  goddesses  who  presided  over  the 
fine  art. 
Musica  (It.)  (Moo-ze-ka)—Music. 
Musical  Grammer—The  rules  of  musical  composition. 
Musical  Science—The  theory  of  music. 
Musical  Terms—Words  and  phrases  applied  to  passages  in  music  indicat -
ing  the  manner  in  which  they  should  be  performed. 
National  Music—Music  identified  with  the  history  of  the  nations. 
Natural—A  character  used  to  contradict  a  sharp  or  flat. 
Natural  Key—Those  keys  which  have  no  sharps  or  flats,  and  applies  to 
C  Major  and  A  Minor. 
Notation—The  art  of  representing  tones  by  written  or  printed  characters. 
Nota  (It.)  (No-ta)—A  note. 
Note  Characters—Representing  tones  or  sound  in  music. 
Octave—An  intervalof  eight  diatonic  sounds,  or  tones. 
Passion  Music—Music  picturing  the  suffering  of  the  Saviour  and  His  death. 
According  to  St.  Matthew. 
24 
Pause—A  semi-breve,  rest,  a  hold  and  chords. 
Perfect—A  term  applied  to  certain  intervals. 
Phonetics—The  science  of  sounds,  especially  those  of  the  human  voice. 
Period  (Eng.)—Containing  a  complete  musical  sentence,  at  least  two 
phrases. 
Phrase—A  short  musical  sentence,  musical. 
Pes.  (Lat.)-Foot,  measure,  species  of  verse. 
Phone  (Gr.)  (Foni)—A  sound  or  tone. 
Pitch—The  acuteness  or  gravity  of  any  particular  sound. 
Prelude—A  short  introduction. 
Prime  (Gr.)  (Preem)—Two  notes  appearing  on  the  same  degree  of  the 
music  staff. 
Psalm—A  sacred  song  or  hymn.  Quadruple.  Fourfold. 
Refrain—The  burden  of  a  song. 
Relative  Keys—Keys  which  only  differ  by  one  sharp  or  flat,  or  which  have 
the  same  signature. 
Repeat—A  character  indicating  that  certain  measures  or  passages  are 
to  be  rendered  twice. 
Repeat  Sva.—Repeat  an  octave  higher. 
Response—Answering  of  the  choir. 
Retardation—Slacking;  retarding  the  time. 
Rest—Character  indicating  silence. 
Rhythm  (Eng.)  (Rithm)—Division  of  musical  idea  or  sentences  into 
proper  portions,  accent  and  regular  pulsation. 
Root—The  fundamental  note  of  any  chord. 
Sang  (Ger.)  (Sang)—Song. 
Sanger  (Ger.)  (San-ger)—A  singer. 
Scale—The  succession  of  tones  upon  which  any  music  is  built. 
Score—The  whole  instrumental  and  vocal  placed  under  eacli  other  in 
composition. 
Second-—An  interval  of  one  degree. 
Sharp—A  sign.  | 
Signature  (Eng.)—Name  given  to  sharps  and  flats. 
Solo  (Fr.  and  It.)—A  composition  of  a  single  voice  or  an  instrument. 
Sola  (Ir.)  (So-la)—Alone. 
Song—Vocal  musical  expression. 
Tempo  (It.)  (Tem-po)—The  Italian  word  for  time. 
Tetr  chord  (Tet-ra-kor-do)—A  fourth;  a  system  of  four  seconds.  (In 
ancient  system  of.) 
Theory  of  Music—The  science  of  music. 
Thesis  (Ger.)  (Tha-sis)—Down  beat.  Ancient  part  of  the  bar. 
Tone—A  given  fixed  sound  of  certain  pitch. 
Tonic-Solfa—A  method  of  teaching  vocal  music,  invented  by  Miss  Sarah 
Ann  Glover,  of  Norwich. 
Trill—Like  a  shake  or  role  (Fr.) 
Trio  (It.)  (Tree-o)—A  time  of  three  parts  for  voice  or  instruments. 
Unison—Sounds  proceeding  from  an  equality  in  the  number  of  vibrations 
made  in  a  given  time  by  sonorous  bodies,  a  tone  which  has  same  pitch  with 
another. 
Variations—Repetition  of  a  theme  or  subject  in  a  new  and  varied  aspect. 
Vocal—Belonging  or  relating  to  the  human  voice. 
Voce  (It.)  (Vo-tshe)—The  voice. 
Voice—The  sound  or  sounds,  produced  by  the  vocal  organs  in  singing. 
Voice  Chest—The  register  of  the  chest  tones. 
Voice  Parts—The  vocal  parts;  chorus  parts. 
Wind—To  give  a  prolonged  and  varied  sound,  as,  to  wind  a  horn. 
