16  RUDIMENTS  OF 
GREEK  NOTATION. 
1.  How  many  syllables  or  notes  did  the  Greeks  have  or  use? 
History  informs  us  that  the  Greeks  had  four  syllable  denominations  of 
notes,  which  they  applied  to  the  tones  of  their  tetrachord  as  we  assign  our 
Fa,  Sol,  La,  Mi  to  to  those  of  our  octaves. 
Q.  What  was  the  names  of  these  four  syllables  or  notes? 
They  wer  called  Te,  Ta,  The,  Tho.  The  Te  answered  the  first  sound 
of  the  first  tetrachord. 
3.  What  about  the  Guido  system  of  .notes? 
He  adopted  six  notes  or  syllables. 
4.  What  did  he  call  them? 
He  called  them  Ut,  Re,  Mi,  Fa,  Sol  ,La.  He  took  them  from  the  Hymn 
of  St.  John  the  Baptist. 
5.  Was  Guido’s  notes  readily  adopted? 
They  were  not.  They  were  first  introduced  in  Italy. 
6.  What  notes  were  used  in  France? 
Syllables  called  Pro,  To,  No,  A.  These  were  used  in  France  for  a  long 
time—several  centuries. 
7.  What  other  notes  were  used? 
There  were  many  different  names  given,  or  by  which  the  syllables  were 
called  at  different  times.  In  1582,  and  for  some  time  after  that,  they  were 
called  Vt,  Re,  My,  Fa,  Sol,  La.  The  Americans  used  exclusively  for  awhile 
four  notes—Fa,  Sol,  La,  Mi.  C.  H.  Graun  employed  Do,  Mi,  Ni,  Po,  Tu 
La,  Be.  Notes  or  syllables  have  been  called  by  many  other  names  at  times, 
one  note  only  used.  Other  period  two,  3—4—5—6—7  and  as  high  as  fifteen 
(15)  notes  or  syllables  have  been  brought  into  composition.  The  following 
example  is  given  that  any  one  can  see  all  songs  can  be  sung  or  played  in 
four  or  seven  notes. 
The  *place  of  the  syllable  Si,  according  to  the  Italian  method,  and  of 
Mi,  according  to  the  other  method,  is  known  by  the  signature,  i.  e.,  by  the  flats 
or  sharps  placed  at  the  beginning  of  the  tune  of  strain.  If  the  signature 
be  natural,  i.  e.,  neither  sharp  nor  flat,  the  syllable  Si  or  Mi  (according  as 
we  use  the  one  method  or  the  other)  falls  on  the  letter  B. 
If  the  signature  be  one  flat,  B  b,  Si  or  Mi  is  on  E. 
If  the  signature  be  two  flats,  B  b  and  E  b,  Si  or  Mi  is  on  A. 
If  the  signature  be  three  flats,  B  b,  E  b  and  A  b,  Si  or  Mi  is  on  D. 
If  the  signature  be  four  flats,  B6,  E  b,  A  b,  D  b,  Si  or  Mi  is  on  G. 
If  the  signature  be  on  one  sharp,  Si  or  Mi  is  on  F  sharp. 
If  the  signature  be  two  sharps,  F  sharp  and  C  sharp,  Si  or  Mi  is  on  C 
sharp. 
MUSIC.  Continued. 
If  the  signature  be  three  sharps,  F  sharp,  C  sharp  and  G  sharp,  Si  or  Mi 
is  on  G  sharp. 
If  the  signature  be  four  sharps,  F  sharp,  C  sharp,  G  sharp  and  D 
sharp,  Si  or  Mi  is  on  D  sharp. 
THE  VOICE  IN  SINGING—VOCAL  ORGANS,  LUNGS,  ETC. 
1.  What  organs  are  particularly  active  when  one  sings? 
The  organs  which  are  particularly  active  in  singing  are  the  vocal  organs. 
2.  What  have  the  lungs  to  do  with  it,  and  how  are  they  arranged? 
The  lungs  into  which,  and  out  of  which,  the  breath  passes  are  two  in  num -
ber,  and  being  sponge-like»in  their  structure,  may  be  expanded  or  compressed 
accordingly  as  they  are  inflated  or  emptied. 
3.  What  proceeds  from  the  lungs  upwards? 
From  each  lung  there  proceeds  upward  a  small  tube.  These  tubes  are 
called  the  bronchi  or  bronchial  tubes. 
4.  What  are  the  bronchi  or  bronchial  tubes? 
The  bronchi  are  composed  of  a  number  of  cartilaginous  rings  which, 
lying  one  above  another,  are  connected  by  a  membranous  covering  and 
forming  a  single  tube  called  the  windpipe.  The  windpipe  is  constructed 
similarly  to  the  bronchi,  but  is  larger,  its  diameter  in  adults  being  from* 
one-half  to  three-fourths  of  an  inch  and  its  length  .about  four  inches.  On 
the  upper  end  of  the  windpipe  is  attached  what  is  called  the  larynx. 
5.  What  is  the  larynx? 
It  is  pre-eminently  the  organ  of  the  voice.  It  enlarges  upward  and  is 
composed  of  various  cartilages  and  acted  upon  by  numerous  muscles.  Among 
these  cartilages  is  the  thyroid,  which  forms  the  proberance  commonly  known 
as  Adam’s  apple.  Within  are  two  ligaments,  called  the  vocal  chords  com -
ing  together  something  like  lips—may  be  opened  or  closed  at  will.  In  ordinary 
breathing  they  remain  separated  .long  enough  to  allow  the  breath  to  pass  in 
silence.  When  singing  they  become  closed  and  stretched  somewhat  so  that  as 
the  breath  is  forced  through  it  compels  them  to  vibrate  and  produce  sound. 
6.  What  is  the  glottis,  or  vocal  chords? 
The  opening  between  the  vocal  chords  is  called  the  glottis.  At  the  top 
of  the  larynx  is  a  tongue-shaped  ring  called  the  epilglottis. 
7.  What  does  the  epiglottis  do? 
It  prevents  the  entrance  of  food  or  drink. 
8.  What  is  a  third  pharynx? 
It  is  the  cavity  which  may  be  seen  at  the  back  of  the  throat,  extending 
from  the  roof  of  the  mouth  downward.  One  can  distend  or  contract  it  at 
pleasure  so  as  to  modify  the  sound  which  proceeds  from  the  larynx. 
