FAIRFIELD.  C.  M.  : 
“  And  so  I  will  go  in  unto  the  king,  .  .  .  and  if  I  perish,  I  perish.  When  the  king  saw  Esther  the  queen  standing  in  the  court,  that  she  obtained  favor  in  his  sight;  and  the 
.  king  held  out  to  Esther  the  golden  sceptre  that  was  in  his  hand.”—Esther  4:  16:  5:2. 
Bdmund  Jones,  1750.  Key  of  A  Minor. 
1  2 
i.  Come,humble  sinner,  in  whose  breast  A  thousand  thoughts  revolve,  Come,  with  your  fear  and  guilt  oppressed, 
And  make  this  last  resolve,  Come,with  your  fear  and  guilt  oppressed,  And  make  this  last  resolve,  solve. 
1  2 
2.  I’ll  go  to  Jesus,  though  my  sin  hath  like  a  mountain  rose;  I  know  his  courts,  I’ll  enter  in, 
What  ever  may  oppose,  I  know  his  courts  I’ll  enter  in,  Whatever  may  oppose,  pose. 
1  2 
3.  I  can  but  perish  if  I  go,  I  am  resolved  to  try,  For  if  I  stay  away  I  know  I  must  forever  die,  For  if  I  stay  away  I  know  I  must  forever  die.  die. 
1  2 
«  e  Fairfield  ’  is  in  most  of  the  earlier  publications  of  this  country.  In  Andrew  Law’s  books,  Oliver  Holden’s  works,  “  Missouri  Harmony,”  1837,  page  43; 
Southern  Harmony,”  1835,  page  48,  and  in  1849;  “Temple  Harp,”  1872,  and  earlier  books;  Little  &  Smith’s  publications  of  1830,  as  well  as  many  others  of  the 
earlier  editions  of  the  earlier  composers.  Edmund  Jones  was  an  English  Baptist  minister,  born  in  1721  and  died  in  1765.  He  composed  several  important  hymns, 
one  of  his  best  is  the  above.  Nothing  is  known  of  the  author  of  the  music.  After  a  search  through  many  books  we  fail  to  find  the  author’s  name.  It  is  one  of  the 
old  church  tunes.  Copyright,  1909,  by  J.  S.  James. 
Watts.  Hymn  55,  Book  2.  Key  of  D  Minor.  TRIBULATION.  C.  M..  Chopin. 
1.  Death,  ’tis  a 
mel-an-chol  -  y  day  To 
those  who  have  no  God, 
When  the  poor  soul  is  forced  a  -  way,  To  seek  her  last  a  -  bode. 
2.  In 
vain  to  heav’n  she  lifts  her  eyes,  For  guilt,  a  heav-y  chain, 
Still  drags  her  downward  from  the  skies  To  dark  -  ness  fire,  and  pain. 
Chopin  was  born  in  1809  and  died  in  1849.  He  was  one  of  the  great  masters  of  music.  His  last  words  were  said  to  his  attending  physician,  “  Now  my  death 
struggle  begins.”  He  remained  conscious  to  the  last,  and  added,  “  God  shows  man  rare  favor  when  He  reveals  to  him  the  moment  of  the  approach  of  his  death. 
This  He  shows  to  me.  Do  not  disturb  me.” 
