RUDIMENTS  OF  MUSIC.  Continued. 
9.  What  does  the  mouth  do  and  how  is  it  used  in  singing? 
The  mouth,  by  means  of  the  lips,  teeth,  tongue  and  palate  becomes  the 
organ  of  pronounciation. 
10.  What  is  the  diaphram?  Where  is  it  situated? 
The  diaphragm  is  the  muscle  situated  just  below  the  lungs—the  dividing 
wall  between  the  chest  and  the  lower  abdomen.  It  is  the  power  by  which 
one  is  enabled  to  control  the  breath.  This  muscle  gradually  forces  out  the 
air  inclosed  in  the  lungs  and  a  skillful  singer  ought  to  know  how  to  direct 
it.  It  constitutes  the  most  important  operation  in  the  art  of  singing. 
11.  What  about  the  body  when  engaged  in  singing? 
The  body  should  be  when  singing—sit  or  stand  erect,  with  both  feet  upon 
the  floor;  hold  the  head  up  without  turning  it  to  either  side;  slightly  project 
the  chest  and  avoid  all  unnatural  motions.  -It  is  better  to  keep  the  body  free 
from  contact  with  the  back  of  the  seat  when  sitting. 
12.  What  about  correct  breathing? 
Breathing  involves  inhalation  by  which  the  lungs  are  inflated  and  exhala -
tion  by  which  the  air  is  emitted  from  them.  Tones  are  produced  during  ex -
halation.  Inhalation  should  be  noiseless  with  lips  partly  closed  so  t  he  breath 
will  not  interfere  with  the  sides  of  the  throat,  which  is  hurtful.  Keep  the 
shoulders  in  their  natural  position.  Do  not  seek  to  hold  the  breath  by  closing 
the  throat.  The  throat  should  be  kept  open  constantly. 
13.  How  and  when  should  we  breathe? 
Inhalation  should  take  place  often  enough  to  prevent  exhaustion  of  the 
breath  and  where  it  may  not  interrupt  the  w*rds  or  music. 
14.  What  is  the  rule  of  breathing  while  singing  words? 
As  a  rule  in  singing  by  words  it  may  take  place  at  the  marks  of  punc -
tuation  or  after  one  of  the  more  emphatic  words  between  them. 
15.  On  what  does  the  correct  delivery  of  the  voice  depend? 
A  good  delivery  of  the  voice  in  singing  not  only  depends  on  a  correct 
position  of  the  body  and  a  complete  control  of  the  breath,  but  also  upon  a 
favorable  adjustment  of  the  throat  and  mouth  and  a  firm  action  of  the  glottis. 
16.  How  about  the  throat  and  mouth  in  reference  to  the  pitch  of  tone? 
17 
For  every  pitch  there  is  a  certain  position  of  the  throat  and  mouth  which 
is  most  conducive  to  the  formation  of  a  pure  tone. 
17.  What  about  contraction  of  the  mouth  or  throat? 
Avoid  any  unnatural  contraction  or  distension  of  the  mouth  or  throat; 
open  the  mouth  freely  enough  to  admit  of  no  obstruction  to  the  tone  by  the 
lips  or  teeth.  Be  careful  not  to  direct  the  sound  into  the  nose  cavities. 
18.  While  singing  what  about  the  pronunciation  of  words? 
Every  word  and  syllable  of  a  word  should  be  pronounced  correctly  and 
spoken  distinctly  so  that  they  may  be  easily  heard  by  those  listening.  Pro -
nunciation  of  words  should  not  always  be  made  according  to  Webster,  but 
according  to  the  vocal  division  of  the  words  as  follows: 
Webster—Mus-ic—Re-cord—Stor-y. 
Vocal  Division—M  u-sic—Rec-ord—Sto-ry. 
INTERVALS. 
What  is  an  interval? 
An  interval  is  the  difference  of  pitch  between  two  tones.  From  1  to  2,  3  to 
4,  5  to  6,  6  to  7,  7  to  8,  or  between  8  to  1,  or  any  other  distance  between  two 
tones. 
What  is  prime? 
A  prime  is  the  name  given  to  two  tones  which  involves  but  one  degree  as 
in  representation  of  C  and  C. 
What  is  a  second? 
An  interval  which  involves  two  degrees  as  represented  on  the  scale  from 
C  to  D. 
How  many  kinds  of  seconds  are  there,  and  what  are  they  called? 
Three—Major  second,  Minor  second  and  Augmented  second. 
What  is  a  Minor  second? 
A  second  as  small  as  a  half-step. 
What  is  a  major  second? 
A  second  as  great  as  a  step. 
What  is  an  Augmented  second? 
A  second  as  great  as  a  step  and  a  half-step. 
