5 o  CONSOLATION.  C.  M. 
“  Hear  me,  O  Lord,  when  I  cry  with  my  voice  :  have  mercy  also  upon  me,  and  answer  me.”—Ps.  27  :  7. 
Isaac  Watts,  1707.  Key  of  A  Minor. 
Dejan. 
1  2 
1.  Once  more,  my  soul,  the  ris  -  ing  day  Sa-lutes  thy  wak-ing  eyes; 
2.  Night  un-to  night  His  name  re  -  peats,  The  day  re-news  the  sound, 
Once  more,  my  voice,  thy  trib  -  ute  pay  To  Him  that  rules  the  skies. 
Wide  as  the  heav’n  on  which  He  sits,  To  turn  the  sea-sons  round. 
1  2 
3.  ’Tis  He  sup-ports  my  mor  -  tai  frame,  My  tongue  shall  speak  His  praise;  My  sins  would  rouse  His  wrath  to  flame,  And  yet  His  wrath  de-lays. 
4.  On  a  poor  worm  Thy  pow’r  might  tred,  And  I  could  ne’er  with-stand;  Thy  jus-tice  might  have  crushed  me  dead,  But  mer-cy  held  Thine  hand. 
1  2 
5.  A  thou-sand  wretch-ed  souls  are  fled  Since  the  last  set-ting  sun, 
6.  Dear  God,  let  all  my  hours  be  Thine,  Whilst  I  en-joy  the  light, 
And  yet  Thou  length’nest  out  my  thread,  And  yet  my  mo-ments  run. 
Then  shall  my  sun  in  smiles  de-cline,  And  bring  a  pleas-ant  night. 
1  2 
The  above  hymn  was  in  the  old  hymn  books  printed  under  the  name  of  “  Morning  Song.”  It  was  taken  from  “  Hymns  and  Spiritual  Songs,”  and  contains  six 
verses.  See  remarks  about  Mr.  Watts,  on  page  47,  under  the  tune  “  Primrose.” 
We  can  find  nothing  about  Mr.  Dean,  the  author  of  the  music.  It  was  published  in  “  Southern  Harmony,”  in  1835,  page  17;  “  Missouri  Harmony,”  in  1837, 
page  25,  and  books  of  earlier  date.  See  “  Sacred  Harp,”  by  White  and  King,  from  1844  to  1869. 
DISTRESS.  L.  M. 
“  Then  they  cried  unto  the  Lord  in  their  trouble,  and  he  delivered  them  out  of  their  distresses.”—Ps.  107:  6. 
Anne  StejelE.  Key  of  E  Minor.  Psalmist,  hymn  1088. 
1  2 
i.  So  fades  the  lovely  bloom-ing  flow’r,  Frail,  smil-ing  sol-ace  of  an  hour; 
So  soon  our  tran-sient  com-forts  fly,  And  pleas-ure  on-Iy  blooms  to  die. 
1  2 
2.  Is  there  no  kind,  no  heal-ing  art,  To  soothe  the  an-guish  of  the  heart? 
Spir  -  it  of  grace,  be  ev-er  nigh;  Thy  comforts  are  not  made  to  die. 
3.  Let  gen-tle  pa-tience  smile  on  pain,  Till  dy-ing  hope  re-vives  a-gain,  Hope  wipes  the  tear  from  sor-row’s  eye,  And  faith  points  up-ward  to  the  sky. 
Anne  Steele  was  born  in  1706  and  died  in  Broughton  Hampshire  in  1778.  This  hymn  was  supposed  to  have  been  composed  by  her  in  1735.  She  was  a  great 
woman.  Her  works  of  many  volumes—prose  and  hymns—were  published  in  1760  and  1780,  and  reprinted  in  186j,  and  credited  to  Anne  Steele.  “Distress”  is 
rightly  named,  and  applies  to  Miss  Steele’s  hymns,  for  she  was  a  great  sufferer  all  her  life  from  bodily  illness  and  lasting  grief  over  the  loss  of  her  intended 
husband,  who  was  drowned  the  day  before  the  appointed  wedding.  See  further  statements  in  the  “  Story  of  Hymns  and  Tunes,”  by  Brown  and  Butterworth. 
No  trace  can  be  found  of  the  author  of  the  music.  It  was  published  on  page  22  of  “  Southern  Harmony,”  in  1825,  by  Walker,  and  its  orgin,  no  doubt,  was 
much  earlier  than  this. 
