62  PARTING  HAND.  L.  M. 
“  But  as  touching  brotherly  love  ye  need  not  that  I  write  unto  you  :  for  ye  yourselves  are  taught  of  God  to  love  one  another.”—1  Thess.  4  :  9. 
Key  of  G  Major.  Jeremiah  Ingales,  1803. 
f  My  Christian  friends,  in  bonds  of  love,  Whose  hearts  in  sweetest  union  join,  1  2.  Your  company’s  sweet,  your  union  dear,  Yet 
1  Your  friendship’s  like  a  drawing  band,  Yet  we  must  take  the  parting  hand,  j  Your  words  delightful  to  my  ear 
f  How  sweet  th  ef  hours  have  passed  away  Since  we  have  met  to  sing  and  pray;  1  4.  O  could  I  stay  with  friends  so  kind,  But 
I  How  loath  we  are  to  leave  the  place  Where  Jesus  shows  his  smil-ing  face.  /  How  would  it  cheer  my  drooping  mind! 
when  I  see  that  we  must  part  You  draw  like  chords  around  my  heart. 
duty  makes  me  understand  That  we  must  take  the  parting  hand. 
5  And  since  it  is  God’s  holy  will, 
We  must  be  parted  for  a  while, 
In  sweet  submission,  all  as  one, 
We’ll  say,  our  Father’s  will  be  done. 
6  My  youthful  friends,  in  Christian  ties, 
Who  seek  for  mansions  in  the  skies, 
Fight  on,  we’ll  gain  that  happy  shore, 
Where  parting  will  be  known  no  more. 
7  How  oft  I’ve  seen  your  flowing  tears, 
And  heard  you  tell  your  hopes  and  fears  ! 
Your  hearts  with  love  were  seen  to  flame, 
Which  makes  me  hope  we’ll  meet  again. 
8  Ye  mourning  souls,  lift  up  your  eyes 
To  glorious  mansions  in  the  skies; 
O  trust  His  grace—in  Canaan’s  land 
We’ll  no  more  take  the  parting  hand. 
9  And  now,  my  friends,  both  old  and  young, 
1  hope  in  Christ  you’ll  still  go  on  ; 
And  if  on  earth  we  meet  no  more, 
O  may  we  meet  on  Canaan’s  shore. 
10  I  hope  you’ll  all  remember  me 
If  on  earth  no  more  1  see; 
An  interest  in  your  prayers  I  crave, 
That  we  meet  beyond  the  grave. 
11  O  glorious  day!  O  blessed  hope  ! 
My  soul  leaps  forward  at  the  thought 
When,  on  that  happy,  happy  land, 
We’ll  no  more  take  the  parting  hand. 
12  But  with  our  blessed  holy  Lord 
We’ll  shout  and  sing  with  one  accord, 
And  there  we’ll  all  with  Jesus  dwell, 
So,  loving  Christians,  fare  you  well. 
Urpmiah  Ino-alk  was  2  native  of  the  State  of  Massachusetts-  born  in  1764  and  died  in  1828.  In  1804  he  published  a  book  called  “  Christian  Harmony.”  The 
above  tune  “  Part  ngHand  ”waswmOT^iniSoT^ew^a  music  teacher,  and  traveled  through  the  States  of  New  Hampshire,  Vermont,  and  Massachusetts. 
Among  some  of  Shading  tunes  of  Ms  are  “Northfield”  and  “New  Jerusalem.”  A  more  extended  sketch  of  Mr.  Inga  Is  is  given  under  the  tune  of  “  North- 
field.”  It  may  be  that  he  wrote  the  words  to  “  Parting  Hand,”  as  well  as  the  music.  He  usually  wrote  the  words  to  his  own  tunes. 
Copyright,  1909,  by  J.  S.  James. 
