CHINA.  C.  M. 
•<  And  she  went  and  told  them  that  had  been  with  him,  as  they  mourned  and  wept.”—Mark  16:  10. 
Isaac  Watts,  1707.  Key  of  D  Major. 
37 
Timothy  Swann,  about  1790. 
i.  Why  do  we  mourn  de-part  -  ing  friends,  Or  shake  at  death’s  a  -  larms?  ’Tis  but 
the  voice  that 
Je  -  sus  sends,  To'  call  them  to  his  arms. 
2.  Why  should  we  trem-ble  to  con-vey  Their  bod  -  ies  to  the  tomb?  There  the  dear  flesh  of 
Je  -  sus  lay,  And  scat  -  tered  all  the  gloom. 
3.  Thence  He  a  ■  rose,  as  -  cend  -  ing  high,  And  showed  our  feet  the  way;  Up  to 
the  Lord  we  too  shall  fly  At  the  great  ris  -  ing  day. 
Timothy  Swann  was  born  1758  in  Worcester,  Mass.,  died  in  Sheffield,  Conn.,  1842.  He  was  self-taught  in  music,  only  having  attended  a  course  of  studies 
for  three  weeks  in  a  country  singing  school  at  Groton.  When  he  was  sixteen  years  of  age  he  moved  to  Northfield,  Mass.  He  was  a  hatter  by  trade,  and  while 
engaged  in  this  business,  studied  music  for  over  thirty  years.  He  wrote  and  taught  music  in  New  England.  Many  of  his  tunes  were  published  and  had  wide 
circulation.  He  was  a  genius  in  his  way.  His  tunes  were  remarkable  for  their  originality,  and  singularly  unlike  any  other  melodies.  China^  is  one  of  his 
master-pieces,  and  illustrates  his  self-culture  in  the  art  of  song.  It  is  printed  in  song  books  of  Law,  Mason,  Billings,  Swann,  Holden.  In  the  Missouri  Har -
mony,”  1837,  “Southern  Harmony,”  1835,  and  all  along  from  1807  up  to  the  present,  and  was  also  printed  in  the  Sacred  Harp,  in  1844,  by  White  and  King. 
The  only  song  book  he  ever  published  was  “  The  New  England  Harmony,”  104  pages. 
LIVERPOOL.  C.  M. 
Key  of  F  Major,  “  Remember  now  thy  Creator  in  the  days  of  thy  youth.”—Eccl.  12  :  1.  M.  C.  H.  DAVIS. 
i.  Young  peo-ple  all,  at-ten  -  tion  give,  And  hear  what  I  shall  say;  I  wish  your  souls  with  Christ  to  live  In  ev  -  er-last  -  ing  day.  day. 
JL 
1  2 
2.  Re-mem-ber  you  are  hast-’ning  on  To  death’s  dark,  gloom-y  shade;  Your  joys  on  earth  will  soon  be  gone,  Your  flesh  in  dust  be  laid.  laid. 
JL 
The  above  hymn  was  found  in  Mercer’s  Cluster,”  page  146,  headed  “Solemn  Addresses  to  Young  People.”  This  is  the  third  revised  edition  of  said  book. 
Rev.  Jesse  Mercer  of  Howellton,  Ga.,  was  the  editor  in  1823.  The  hymn  has  appeared  in  several  hymn  books,  but  none  of  them  give  the  author  s  name  or  date  of 
the  hymn.  It  is  probably  an  English  production.  “  Liverpool,”  is  credited  to  M.  C.  H.  Davis.  It  appears  in  the  “  Sacred  Harp,”  by  White  and  King,  in  1844, 
and  later  editions;  “Southern  Harmony,”  1837,  page  1,  with  all  the  verses  in  the  hymn;  and  in  the  “Christian  Harmony,”  by  Walker,  in  i860,  page  583. 
It  also  has  been  printed  in  a  great  number  of  later  books. 
