34 
Key  of  A  Major. 
HAMILTON.  L.  M. 
“  Jesus  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God.  This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment.”—Matt.  22:  37. 
Arr.  by  B.  F.  White,  1844. 
i.  Come,  all  who  love  the  Lord  in-deed,  Who  are  from  sin  and  bond-age  freed;  Submit  to  all  the  ways  of  God,  And  walk  the  nar  -  row,  hap-py  road. 
2.  Great  tribulation  you  shall  meet,  But  soon  you  shall  walk  the  golden  street;  Though  hell  may  rage,  and  vent  her  spite,  Yet  Christ  will  save  his  heart’s  delight. 
3.  They’ve  fought  the  fight,  The  race  is  run,  Their  joys  are  now  in  heaven  begun;  Their  tears  are  gone,  their  sorrows  flee,  No  more  afflicted  now  like  me. 
The  words  of  the  above  hymn  are  taken  from  a  book  called  “  The  Zion  Songster,”  page  222,  hymn  193.  It  has  nine  verses;  was  published  in  1832.  Seventh 
edition.  Compiled  by  Thomas  Mason.  Many  of  the  songs  were  for  camp-meeting  purposes  and  other  religious  gatherings.  Major  B.  F.  White  rearranged  this 
tune  for  the  “  Sacred  Harp,”  in  1884.  In  its  original  form  it  was  published  on  an  earlier  date  by  Thomas  Mason  and  other  authors  of  tune  books. 
BLEEDING  SAVIOUR.  C.  M. 
“  In  whom  we  have  redemption  through  his  blood,  forgiveness  of  sins  according  to  the  riches  of  his  grace.”—Eph.  1:7. 
ISAAC  WATTS,  1707.  Key  of  A  Minor.  Psalmist,  hymn  472.  Z.  ChamblESS. 
Sav-iour  bleed  ?  And  did  my  Sov  -’reign  die  ? 
i.  A  -  las,  and  did  my 
Would  he  de-vote  that  sac-red  head  For  such  a  worm  as  I? 
2.  Was  it 
for  crimes  that  I  have  done,  He  groaned  up  -  on 
the  tree? 
A  -  maz  -  ing  pit  -  y,  grace  un-known,  And  love  be  -  yond  de  -  gree. 
3.  Thus  might  I  hide  my 
blush-ing  face  While  His  dear  cross  ap-pears  ; 
Dis  -  solve  my  heart  in  th?  k-fulness.  And  melt  mine  eyes  to  tears. 
The  original  title  to  the  above  hymn  was  “  Godly  Sorrow  Arising  From  the  Sufferings  of  Christ.”  It  was  first  published  in  Watts’  “  Hymn  Book  No.  2.  It 
originally  contained  six  verses.  It  is  found  in  all  the  principal  hymn  books  in  this  and  foreign  countries.  See  sketches  of  Isaac  Watts  elsewhere  in  this  book. 
We  have  been  unable  to  get  any  data  that  is  reliable  about  Z.  Chambless.  For  a  short  sketch  of  him  see  James’  “  History  of  the  Sacred  Harp.” 
