23 
RUDIMENTS  OF 
Accompaniment—A  part  added  to  principal  one  by  way  of  enhancing  the 
effect  of  the  composition. 
Adagio  (It.)  (Ah-dah-jio)—A  very  slow  degree  of  movement. 
Adagessimo  (It.)  (Ah-dah-jiss-see-moh)—Extremely  slow. 
Accent—Stress,  emphasis  or  force  given  to  certain  notes  or  chords,  greater 
than  upon  the  surrounding  notes  Of  chords. 
Ad-Lib-i-tum  (Latis.)  (Ad-lib-tum)—At  will. 
Affettuoso  (It.)  (Af-fet-too-o-zo)—With  tender  and  passionate  expres -
sion. 
Air—A  short  song.  Melody  or  tune,  with  or  without  words. 
Agitato  (It.)  (Aj-ta-to)—Hurried,  restless. 
Allegretto  (It.)  (Al-le-gret-to)—Rather  light. 
Allegro  (Fr.  and  It.)  (Al-lay-gro)—Quick,  lively;  a  rapid  movement. 
Al-Segno  (It.)  (Al-sen-yo)—Signifies  that  the  performer  must  return 
to  the  sign. 
Alto  (It.)  (Alto)—In  vocal  music  the  highest  male  voice,  sometimes 
called  counter. 
Appetone—Between  a  tone  and  a  semi-tone. 
Andante  (It.)  (An-dan-te)—A  movement  in  moderate  time,  but  flowing 
easily  and  gracefully. 
Aria  (It.)  (A-re-a)—An  air,  a  song,  a  tune,  sung  by  a  single  voice,  either 
with  or  with  accompaniment. 
Arpeggio  (It.)  (Ar-ped-je-o)—Harping,  harp  music  succession,  immita- 
tion  of  the  harp. 
A  Tempo  (It.)  (A-tem-po)—In  the  regular  time.  a 
Ballad—A  short  and  familiar  song. 
Bass  (Base)—Lowest  part  in  a  musical  composition. 
Bass  Voice—The  lowest  or  deepest  of  male  voices. 
Beat—The  rise  and  fall  of  the  hand  or  baton  in  marking  the  division  of 
time  in  music. 
Beat  Down—The  falling  of  the  hand  in  beating  time. 
Beating  Time—Marking  the  division  of  the  measure  by  means  of  the 
hand,  foot  or  baton. 
Beat  Up—The  elevation  of  the  hand  or  baton  in  beating  time. 
Breve  (Lat.)—An  ancient  note  equal  in  length  to  two  semi-breves. 
Cadence  (Fr.)  (Ka-danhs)—A  shake  or  trill;  also  a  close  in  harmony. 
1.  A  close  in  melody  or  harmony,  dividing  into  numbers  or  periods,  or 
bringing  it  to  a  final  termination.  2.  An  ornamental  passage. 
Catch—A  vocal  piece  in  several  parts  of  a  humorous  character. 
Cantabile  (It.)  (Kan-ta-bi-le)—In  a  graceful  singing  style. 
Capo  (It.)  (Ka-po)—The  head  or  beginning. 
Cantante  (It.)—A  part  to  be  executed  by  voice  singing. 
Chant—A  simple  melody  generally  harmonized  in  four  parts  to  which 
lyrical  portions  of  Scriptures  are  set.  2.  To  recite  musically;  to  sing. 
Chant  (Fr.)  (Shant)—The  voice  part;  a  song. 
Chord—The  union  of  two  or  more  sounds  heard  at  the  same  time. 
Chorus—A  company  of  singers;  a  composition  sung  by  a  number  of  voices. 
Chromatic—Proceeding  by  semi-tones.  Any  music  or  chord  containing 
notes  not  belonging  to  the  diatonic  scale. 
Clefs—A  key,  A  character  to  determine  the  pitch  of  notes. 
MUSIC.  Continued. 
Coda  (It.)  (Ko-da)—A  few  measures  added  to  the  end  of  a  piece  of  music 
beyond  its  natural  termination. 
Comma  (Kam-ma)—The  smallest  of  all  the  sensible  intervals  of  a  tone. 
Composer  (Fr.)  (Kam-po-za)—To  compose  music. 
Counter—A  name  given  to  a  part  sung. 
Crescendo  (It.)  (Kre-shen-do)—With  a  gradual  increasing  quantity  of 
tone. 
Concert—A  performance  in  public  of  practical  musician,  either  in  vocal, 
instrumental  or  both. 
Da-Capo  or  D.  C.  (It.)  (Da-Ka-po)—From  the  beginning;  an  expression 
often  written  at  the  end  of  t  he  movement. 
Dal  Sagno  (It.)  (Dal-san-yo)—From  the  sign,  a  word  directing  repeti -
tion  from  the  sign. 
De  Crescendo  (It.)  (De-kre-shen-do—Diminishing  to  the  softest  possible 
sound. 
Diassonance—A  discord;  an  interval  or  chord  displeasing  to  the  ear. 
Gran  (It.)  (Gran)—Great,  grand,  full,  complete,  pleasing. 
Diatonic  (Ger.)  (Di-a-ton-ik)—Naturally;  proceeding  according  to  the 
degrees  of  the  major  and  minor  scale,  including  tones  and  semi-tones  only. 
Deminuendo  (It.)  (Di-mi-noo-en  do)—  Implies  that  the  quantity  of  the 
tone  must  be  gradually  diminished. 
Duet—A  composition  for  two  voices  or  instruments. 
Fine  (It.)  (Feen-ay)—The  end;  the  termination. 
Foot—A  certain  number  of  syllables  constituting  a  distinct,  metrical 
element  in  a  verse. 
Fortissimo,  or  ff  (It.)  (For-tes-se-mo)—Very  loud. 
Fugue  (Lat.)  (Fug)—A  flight.  The  parts  of  music  folow  each  other  in 
succession. 
Gamut  (It.)  (Gam-ma)—The  gamut  or  scale,  sometimes  called  Rudi -
ments  of  Music. 
Grave  (It.)  (Gra-ve)—A  slow  and  solemn  movement;  also  a  deep  low 
pitch  in  the  scale  of  sounds.  The  lowest  tempo  in  music. 
Harmony—The  arrangement  of  two  or  more  united  sounds;  the  art 
of  combining  sounds  into  chords. 
Hexametre—In  ancient  poetry,  a  verse  of  six  feet,  the  first  four  of 
which  may  be  either  dactyle  or  spondees. 
Intonation—A  word  referring  to  the  proper  emission  of  the  voice  so  as 
to  produce  any  required  note  in  exact  time. 
Interval—The  difference  in  pitch  between  two  tones. 
Key—A  scale,  or  series  of  notes  progressing  diatonically  in  a  certain 
order  of  tones  and  semi-tones,  the  first  note  of  the  scale  being  called  the 
key  note. 
Key  Note—The  tonic  or  first  note  of  every  scale. 
Largo  (It.)  (Lar-go)—A  slow  and  solemn  degree  of  movement. 
Largato  (It.)—In  a  smooth  and  connected  manner. 
Major  Chord—An  interval  having  more  semi-tones  than  the  minor  chord 
of  the  same  degree. 
Major  Diatonic  Scale—The  scale  in  which  semi-tones  fall  between  the 
third  and  fourth  and  seventh  and  eighth  tones,  both  in  ascending  and 
descending. 
