COLUMBUS.  C.  M. 
67 
Key  of  Fj|  Minor. 
“Now  the  just  shall  live  by  faith  :  but  if  any  man  draw  back,  my  soul  shall  have  no  pleasure  in  him."—Heb.  10:  38. 
Mercer’S  “Cluster,”  page  383. 
12 
Oh,  once  I  had  a  glo-rious  view  Of  my  re-deem-ing  Lord, 
He  said,  I’ll  be  a  God  to  you,  And  I  be-lieved  His  word. 
1  2 
But  now  I  have  a  deep-er  stroke  Than  all  my  groan-ings  are;  My 
Oh,  what  im  -  mor-tai  joys  I  felt  On  that  ce  -  les  -tial  day, 
When  my  hard  heart  be-gan  to  melt,  By  love  dis-solved  a  £  way! 
But  my  com-plaint  is  bit  -  ter  now,  For  all  my  joys  are  gone;  I’ve 
1  2 
God  has  me  of  late  for-sook,  He’s  gone,  I  know  not  where,  where. 
1  2 
1  2 
strayed!  I’m  left!  I  know  not  how:  The  light’s  from  me  withdrawn. 
1  2 
3  Once  I  could  joy  the  saints  to  meet, 
To  me  they  were  most  dear; 
I  then  could  stoop  to  wash  their  feet, 
And  shed  a  joyful  tear; 
But  now  I  meet  them  as  the  rest, 
And  with  them  joyless  stay; 
My  conversation’s  spiritless, 
Or  else  I’ve  naught  to  say. 
4  I  once  could  mourn  o’er  dying  men, 
And  longed  their  souls  to  win; 
I  travailed  for  their  poor  children, 
And  warned  them  of  their  sin; 
But  now  my  heart’s  so  careless  grown, 
Although  they’re  drowned  in  vice, 
My  bowels  o’er  them  cease  to  yearn— 
My  tears  have  left  mine  eyes.  . 
5  I  forward  go  in  duty’s  way, 
But  can’t  perceive  him  there; 
Then  backward  on  the  road  I  stray, 
But  cannot  find  him  there; 
On  the  left  hand,  where  he  doth  work, 
Among  the  wicked  crew, 
And  on  the  right  I  find  him  not 
Among  the  favored  few. 
6  What  shall  I  do  ?—shall  I  lie  down 
And  sink  in  deep  despair; 
Will  He  forever  wear  a  frown, 
Nor  hear  my  feeble  prayer  ? 
No;  He  will  put  His  strength  in  me, 
He  knows  the  way  I’ve  strolled, 
And  when  I’m  tried  sufficiently 
I  shall  come  forth  as  gold. 
The  words  in  the  above  hymn  are  selected  from  Mercer’s  “Cluster,”  by  Jesse  Mercer,  of  Powellton,  Ga.,  1823.  The  title  of  the  hymn  was  “Perplexed, 
But  Not  In  Despair.”  “Columbus”  is  one  of  the  good  old  tunes,  but  the  author’s  name  is  unknown.  It  was  published  in  1835  in  Southern  Harmony, 
by  William  Walker,  page  55. 
