HOLY  MANNA.  8s  &  7s. 
59 
Tr  _  .  “  Worship  the  I,ord  in  beauty  of  holiness.”—Ps.  29  :  2.  “It  is  manna.  This  ±s  the  bread  which  the  Tord  hath  given  you  to  eat.”—EJx.  16  :  16. 
Key  of  c  Major.  j.  W-  Moor b. 
I. 
Breth-ren,  we  have  met  to 
Will  you  pray  with  all  your 
wor-ship,  And  a  -  dore  the  Lord  our  God;  A  „.  .  .  o  tt  <  j 
pow-er,While  we  try  to  preach  the  Word?  A  ’s  vain  unless  the  Spirit  Of  the  Holy  One  comes  down;  Brethren,  oray  and 
1  2 
1  2 
ho  -  ly  man-na  Will  be  show-ered  all  a  -  round,  -round. 
1  2 
1  2 
2  Brethren,  see  poor  sinners  round  you, 
Trembling  on  the  brink  of  woe; 
Death  is  coming,  hell  is  moving, 
Can  you  bear  to  let  them  go  ? 
See  our  fathers,  see  our  mothers, 
And  our  children  sinking  down; 
Brethren,  pray,  and  holy  manna 
Will  be  showered  all  around. 
3  Sisters,  will  you  join  and  help  us  ? 
Moses’  sisters  aided  him; 
Will  you  help  the  trembling  mourners, 
Who  are  struggling  hard  with  sin  ? 
Tell  them  all  about  the  Saviour, 
Tell  them  that  He  will  be  found; 
Sisters,  pray,  and  holy  manna 
Will  be  showered  all  around. 
4  Is  there  here  a  trembling  jailer, 
Seeking  grace,  and  filled  with  fears? 
Is  there  here  a  weeping  Mary, 
Pouring  forth  a  flood  of  tears  ? 
Brethren,  join  your  cries  to  help  them; 
Sisters,  let  your  prayers  abound; 
Pray,  O  pray  that  holy  manna 
May  be  scattered  all  around. 
5  Let  us  love  our  God  supremely, 
Let  us  love  each  other,  too; 
Let  us  love  and  pray  for  sinners, 
Till  our  God  makes  all  things  new. 
Then  He’ll  call  us  home  to  heaven, 
At  His  table  we’ll  sit  down; 
Christ  will  gird  Himself,  and  serve  us 
With  sweet  manna  all  around. 
This  is  one  of  the  tunes  of  long  standing,  and  has  been  sung  and  played  by  church  people  in  conventions  and  singing  societies  for  almost  one  hundred  years.  It 
is  suggested  that  the  chorus  may  be  successfully  rendered  to  “  Lord,  Revive  Us.”  From  the  best  information  at  our  command  we  credit  J.  W.  Moore  with  the 
music,  who  wrote  and  published  an  encyclopedia  of  music,  known  as  Moore’s  “  Encyclopedia  of  Music,”  with  an  appendix  introducing  musical  events  up  to  1876.  It 
was  first  published  in  1854.  Printed  in  Southern  Harmony,”  page  103,  1835.  Mr.  Moore  was  from  the  State  of  Vermont. 
Copyright,  1908,  by  J.  S.  James. 
