3 6  AMERICA.  S.  M. 
ISAAC  Watts,  1719.  Key  of  A  Minor.  “  The  Lord  is  merciful  and  gracious,  slow  to  anger,  and  plenteous  in  mercy.—Ps.  103  :  8.’ 
Whitmore,  1832. 
1  2 
i.  My  soul  repeat  his  praise,  Whose  mercies  are  great, 
2.  High  as  the  heav’ns  are  raised  above  the  ground  we  tread 
Whose  an-ger  is  so  slow  to  rise,  So  read  -  y  to  a  -  bate. 
1  2 
So  far  the  riches  of  his  grace 
Our  highest  thoughts  exceed. 
1  2 
3.  His  pow’r  subdues  our  sins,  And  his  forgiving  love, 
Far  as  the  east  is  from  the  west,  Doth  all  our  guilt  re-move,  Doth  all  our  guilt  re-move. 
1  2 
The  hymn  of  the  above  tune  is  one  of  Dr.  Watts’  best,  and  first  appeared  in  his  “  Psalms  of  David,  published  in  1719. 
The  music  appears  also  in  the  “Southern  Harmony,”  1835,  page  27,  by  William  Houser,  and  “Missouri  Harmony,  1837,  page  49;  and  in  the  Sacred 
Harp,”  by  White  and  King,  in  1844,  and  later  editions.  We  have  been  unable  to  find  any  data  about  Whitmore,  the  author  of  the  music.  He  is  also  credited  with 
being  the  composer  of  the  tune  “  Florida,”  page  203.  It  is  highly  probable  that  the  tune  was  published  long  before  1832. 
NINETY-FIFTH.  C.  M. 
“  Give  diligence  to  make  your  calling  and  election  sure:  for  if  ye  do  these  things,  ye  shall  never  fall.”—2  Pet,  1:  10. 
Isaac  Watts,  1707.  Key  of  A  Major.  Colton. 
1  2 
i.  When  I  can  read  my  title  clear,To  mansions  in  the  skies,  I’ll  bid  farewell  to  ev’ry  fear,I’ll  bid  farewell  to  ev’ry  fear,  And  wipe  my  weeping  eyes.  eyes. 
x 
2.  Should  earth  against  my  soul  engage,  And  fiery  darts  be  hurled,Then  I  can  smile  at  Satan’s  rage,  Then  I  can  smile  at  Satan’s  rage,  And  face  a  frowning  world,  world. 
JL 
3.  There  I  shall  bathe  my  weary  soul  In  seas  of  heav’nly  rest,  And  not  a  wave  of  trouble  roll,  And  not  a  wave  of  trouble  roll  A  -  cross  my  peace-ful  breast,  breast. 
The  original  title  of  this  hymn  was  “Hope  of  Heaven,”  or  “Supported  Under  Trials  on  Earth.”  It  is  No.  6o  of  Dr.  Watts  Second  Book  of  Hymns- 
This  was  one  of  the  leading  hymns  in  the  reform  movement  of  Watts,  Wesley  and  Whitfield,  and  is  one  of  the  standard  hymns  of  England  and  America. 
In  all  the  books  at  our  command  the  above  tune  is  credited  to  Colton,  and  we  have  been  unable  to  find  anything  definite  about  him. 
The  tune,  “Ninety-fifth,”  is  published  in  “Missouri  Harmony,”  1837,  page  48,  as  well  as  previous  publications  of  this  book.  Southern  Harmony,  by  William 
Walker,  1835,  page  27,  Lowell  Mason,  T.  B.  Masson,  Law,  Little  and  Smith,  at  much  earlier  periods  than  by  the  others  above  named.  The  words  and  tune 
have  been  published  in  a  number  of  books  in  the  United  States. 
