88 
John  Cennick,  1843.  Key  of  p  Major. 
DONE  WITH  THE  WORLD.  L.  M. 
“  Received  up  into  glory.”—1  Tim.  3  :  16. 
B.  F.  White,  about  1844. 
Jesus,  my  all,  to  heaven  is  gone,  And  I  don’t  expect  to  stay  much  longer  here;  1  I  am  done  with  the  world,  and  I  want  to  serve  the  Lord, 
He  whom  I  fix  my  hopes  upon,  And  1  don’t  expect  to  stay  much  longer  here.  J  And  I  don’t  expect  to  stay  much  longer  here. 
This  hymn,  “Jesus,  my  all,  to  heaven  is  gone,”  was  written  by  John  Cennick,  and  is  found  in  the  author’s  “Sacred  Hymns,”  1743,  under  the  title, 
“Following  Christ,  the  Sinner’s  Way  to  God.” 
See  history  of  B.  F t  White  under  “  Baptismal  Anthem,”  page  232. 
MOUNT  ZION.  C.  M. 
“While  I  live  will  I  praise  the  I,ord  ;  I  will  sing  praises  unto  my  God  while  I  have  any  being.”—Ps.  146  :  2. 
CHRLES  WESEEY,  1739.  Key  of  F  Major.  John  MassengaeE,  about  1850. 
J  O  for  a  thousand  tongues  to  sing  My  great  Redeemer’s  praise,  1  O  Christians,  praise  Him,  Methinks  I  hear  the  gospel  sounding 
t  The  glories  of  my  God  and  King,  The  triumphs  of  His  grace,  j  O  Christians,  praise  Him,  For  more  volunteers. 
2. 
f  Jesus,  the  name  that  calms  my  fears,  That  bids  my  sorrow  cease;  1  O  Christians,  praise  Him,  Methinks  I  hear  the  gospel  sounding 
\  ’Tis  music  in  the  sinner’s  ears;  ’Tis  life  and  health  and  peace.  J  O  Christians,  praise  Him,  For  more  volunteers. 
f  My  gra-cious  Mas-ter  and  my  God,  As-sist  me  to  pro-claim,  1  O  Christians,  praise  Him,  t  Methinks  I  hear  the  gospel  sounding 
3*  f  To  spread  through  all  the  earth  abroad  The  honors  of  thy  name,  j  O  Christians,  praise  Him,  ror  more  volunteers. 
This  is  one  of  the  old  melodies,  and  arranged  by  Massengale.  See  sketch  of  him  in  other  pages  of  this  book 
A  full  history  of  Charles  Wesley,  page  285,  also  of  the  above  verses  m  M.  E.  hymn  book,  by  Rev  W.  F.  lillitt,  1889.  1N0.  374. 
