RUDIMENTS  OF 
From  F,  Signature,  to  B  Flat,  B  Flat,  and  E  Flat,  Signature. 
1234  8765543  1 
F  G  Ajy,  B  Bjj,  A  G  F  Ejy,  D  G  Bjj. 
From  B]j,  Signature,  B^.andE^,  to  E]j,  Signature,  B^j,  E^j,  and/s 
1234  8765  4321 
Ejj  D  G  Bjj  Aj2  G  F  Ejj 
From  e]j,  Signature,  B^,  E^j,  and  A^,  to  Ajj,  Signature,  Bjj,  E^,  A^  and  D-j. 
123  4  8765  432  1 
EF  G  A  A^GFE^D^CB^A^ 
DYNAMICS. 
1.  What  is  Dynamics? 
It  has  reference  to  expression  and  the  different  degrees  of  power  to 
be  applied  to  notes  or  syllables. 
2.  How  may  musical  tones  be  sung  or  played? 
They  may  be  soft  or  loud. 
3.  From  this  fact  what  arises? 
From  the  nature  of  musical  tones  arises  the  necessity  ot  uie  third  de -
partment  in  the  elements  of  music,  called  Dynamics,  which  treats  of  the  force 
of  the  strength  of  tones. 
4.  What  is  the  tone  produced  by  the  ordinary  exertion  of  the  vocal  or -
gans  called? 
It  is  the  medium  or  middle  tone,  and  it  is  called  by  the  Italian  word 
Mezzo,  and  is  marked  by  the  initial  M. 
5.  What  is  the  tone  produced  by  some  restraint  of  the  vocal  organs 
MUSIC,  Continued.  15 
called? 
It  is  a  soft  tone  and  is  called  Piano,  and  is  marked  P. 
6.  What  is  the  tone  produced  by  a  strong,  full  vocal  exertion  called? 
It  is  loud  tone  and  is  called  Forte,  and  is  marked  F. 
7.  What  is  a  tone  produced  by  a  small  exertion  of  the  vocal  organs  called? 
It  is  a  tone  softer  than  Piano  and  is  called  Piannissimo,  and  is 
marked  P.  P. 
8.  What  is  a  tone  produced  by  a  stronger  effort  of  the  vocal  organs  than 
is  required  for  Forte  called? 
It  is  called  Fortissimo. 
9.  What  is  a  tone  which  is  commenced,  continued  and  ended  with  an 
equal  degree  of  power  called? 
It  is  called  an  Organ  Tone. 
10.  What  is  a  tone  commencing  soft  and  increasing  loud  called? 
It  is  called  Crescendo.  It  is  marked  Cres.  or 
called  what? 
11.  A  tone  commencing  loud  and  gradually  diminishing  to  soft,  is  what? 
It  is  called  Diminuendo,  and  is  marked  thus: 
12.  A  tone  consisting  of  the  union  of  Crescendo  and  Diminundo  is 
called  what? 
It  is  called  a  Swell  and  is  marked  by  a  union  of  Dim.  and  Cres., 
thus: 
Note—The  three  preceding  characters  are  frequently  applied  to  passages 
of  music  as  well  as  to  particular  notes. 
13.  What  is  an  accent? 
A  particular  stress  of  voice  laid  on  a  part  of  the  measure. 
14.  Describe  the  difference  in  emphasis  and  accent. 
Emphasis  has  reference  to  the  words  which  are  sung  to  a  piece  of  music. 
It  consists  in  a  particular  stress  of  the  voice  upon  emphatic  words  without 
regard  to  the  rhymitical  accent. 
SOL  MIZATION. 
Solmization  is  the  application  of  certain  syllables  or  notes  to  musical 
sounds.  The  end  proposed  by  it  is  that  the  same  name,  invariably  applied 
to  the  same  interval,  may  naturally  suggest  its  true  relation  and  proper 
sound.  The  Italians  use  for  this  purpose  the  character  or  syllables  Do,  Re, 
Mi,  Fa,  Sol,  La,  Si  (the  proper  pronounciation  being  Doe,  Rae,  Mee,  Faw, 
Sole,  Law,  See),  and  they  are  applied  in  this  order  to  the  ascending  scale, 
Si  being  the  leading  note.  In  this  country  and  in  England  four  of  these  notes 
or  syllables  only  have  been  commonly  used,  namely,  Fa,  Sol,  La,  Mi,  the  first 
three  being  repeated  and  Mi  being  the  leading  note.  However,  the  Italian 
method  has  been  preferred  by  many  composers  and  instructors.  Since  the 
shaping  the  heads  of  notes  in  this  and  the  last  century  there  has  been  a 
great  deal  of  music  written  in  the  four-shape  and  seven-shape  notes.  This 
method  is  getting  to  be  quite  popular,  especially  in  the  Southern  nad  West -
ern  states,  and  a  great  deal  of  it  in  the  Northern  states,  and  the  use  of  the 
shape  headed  notes  or  syllables  is  largely  on  the  increase  all  over  the 
country,  and  is  much  easier  learned  than  where  all  music  is  written  in  round 
notes. 
