V 
INTRODUCTORY 
On  the  8th  day  of  September,  1906,  the  United  Sacred  Harp  Musical 
Association,  in  Atlanta,  Ga.,  passed  resolutions,  directing  the  appoint -
ment  of  a  committee  on  the  revision  of  the  Sacred  Harp.  This  com -
mittee  was  appointed  and  proceeded  with  the  work  specified  in  the 
resolutions,  but  was  hindered  in  one  way  and  another  from  carrying 
out  the  resolutions  above  mentioned.  Several  attempts  have  been  made 
within  the  last  two  or  three  years  to  revise  the  Sacred  Harp  by  others, 
but  the  work  was  done  in  such  a  way  this  committee  could  not  endorse 
and  accept  the  same,  although  their  names  are  attached  to  some  of 
these  books  as  endorsing  them.  This,  however,  is  without  authority  by 
the  members  of  the  committee.  The  endorsement  could  not  be  made 
because  the  revisors  of  these  volumes  did  not  comply  with  the  resolu -
tions  under  which  the  committee  was  appointed,  and  after  all  efforts  to 
get  a  book  published  as  specified  and  required  in  the  resolutions  had 
failed,  and  no  prospect  of  getting  a  publication  in  accordance  with 
the  resolutions,  the  committee  proceeded  last  February  to  make  and 
compile  what  they  have  christened  the  “  Original  Sacred  Harp.”  A 
brief  statement  of  the  work  performed  is  in  part  as  follows: 
1.  None  of  the  tunes  have  been  removed  from  the  book  as  it  was 
published  in  1869.  All  retain  the  same  names  and  occupy  the  same 
page  or  pages,  except  in  two  or  three  instances,  in  which  cases  it  was 
unavoidable. 
2.  The  bass,  tenor,  alto  and  treble  are  exactly  as  they  were  in  the 
old  book  of  1869,  except  to  correct  errors  where  notes  and  other  char -
acters  of  music  were  not  on  the  proper  line  or  space. 
3.  In  all  tunes  which  could  not  be  improved  by  adding  alto,  it  has 
been  left  out.  Notwithstanding  this,  alto  has  been  composed  and  added 
to  number  of  tunes  and  composed  in  the  same  harmony  as  the  other  parts 
in  such  a  way  as  to  greatly  improve  the  melody  of  each  and  all  the  tunes. 
These,  alto  are  unlike  those  other  books.  Dispersed  Harmony  has  been 
adhered  to  and  the  alto  is  in  perfect  accord  with  the  other  parts 
of  the  music. 
4.  More  words,  or  verses,  of  the  same  hymn  have  been  added  to  a 
large  number  of  the  church  tunes,  in  most  cases,  placed  under  the  lines 
of  the  music  so  it  can  be  easily  sung  or  played,  and  when  the  tune  has 
only  one  verse,  it  is  generally  put  in  the  lower  and  upper  spaces  of  the 
tune,  in  many  of  them  under  the  different  parts,  where  it  is  necessary 
to  do  so. 
5.  At  the  top  of  the  page  the  key  is  stated,  in  addition  to  the  sharps 
and  flats. 
6.  Following  the  name  of  tlie  tune,  the  letters  or  Hgures  which  rep -
resent  the  metre  are  placed. 
7.  Under  the  name  of  the  tune  is  placed  the  scripture  text  upon 
which  the  words  of  the  tune  are  founded,  giving  citation  of  the  book, 
chapter  and  verse  in  the  Bible. 
8.  In  Fugue  pieces  of  music,  the  lines  of  poetry  have  been  generally 
placed  under  each  of  the  parts  of  the  music,  so  as  to  prevent  confusion 
in  rendering  them.  Prismas  have  been  used  in  but  few  instances. 
9.  Corrections  of  words,  in  spelling,  division  of  words  into  syllables, 
arranging  and  correcting  them  in  many  cases  so  as  to  get  proper  pro -
nunciation  and  accent.  In  many  other  instances,  placing  the  notes  and 
other  characters  on  the  right  line  or  space,  correcting  all  the  parts  so 
as  to  get  the  music  as  correct  as  possible.  Inserting  rests  and  other 
characters  on  correct  line  or  space,  slurs  and  ties  of  notes—these  correc -
tions  run  up  into  thousands. 
10.  On  the  left  hand  corner  of  the  page,  the  name  of  the  composer 
of  the  words  or  poetry,  where  known,  and  the  date  when  composed,  are 
stated.  On  the  right  hand  corner  of  the  page,  the  name  of  the  composer 
of  the  music  appears,  where  possible  to  find  the  name  of  the  author  of 
the  composition.  Some  of  the  tunes  have  been  published  for  a  century 
or  more,  and  no  intimation  appearing  as  to  who  is  the  author  of  the 
words  or  music,  or  date  of  either;  and  after  unlimited  research  to  find 
out  the  correct  authors  of  words  and  music,  we  haven’t  been  able  to 
determine  in  some  cases  who  are  the  authors  of  the  music  and  words. 
Quite  a  number  of  persons  are  claiming  the  authorship  of  words  and 
music,  especially  the  latter.  Where  this  occurs,  we  have  tried,  as  best 
we  could,  to  secure  the  name  of  the  original  author,  and  give  credit  as 
we  believe  it  to  be.  In  some  of  them  there  are  only  changes  of  a  few 
notes  in  the  tunes,  and  on  this,  claim  them  as  their  own  productions.  In 
such  cases,  we  have  credited  the  original  author  wherever  found.  In 
some  of  them,  we  may  make  mistakes;  if  so,  an  examination  will  show, 
they  are  few  in  number. 
11.  Following  each  of  the  tunes,  odes  and  anthems,  is  a  brief  history 
of  the  author  of  the  music  and  of  the  hymn  or  words,  where  known,  or 
else  reference  to  where  such  information  can  be  found.  In  these 
sketches,  the  date  of  the  birth  and  death  of  the  authors  is  stated  and 
other  circumstances  about  them  where  known.  Many  of  them  make 
interesting  reading  and  will  give  an  insight  into  the  character  and 
standing  of  the  authors.  This  has  been  a  very  difficult,  tiresome  task, 
for  the  reason  that  in  many  of  the  hymn  and  tune  books  published, 
there  appear  quite  a  number  of  mistakes  in  regard  to  the  authorship 
of  music  and  hymns,  as  well  as  dates  of  births  and  deaths.  The  infor -
mation  herein  contained  can  be  relied  on  as  being  correct,  except  in 
a  few  cases.  We  have  also  stated  where  and  when  many  of  these  tunes 
