CORINTH.  L.  M. 
“  Whosoever  therefore  shall  be  ashamed  of  me  and  my  words,  ...  of  him  also  shall  the  Son  of  man  be  ashamed.”—Mark  8  :  88. 
Rev.  Joseph  Grigg,  1765.  Key  of  G  Major.  j.  messengaee. 
i  a 
1.  Jesus,  and  shall  it  ever  be,  A  mortal  man  ashamed  of  thee  ?  Ashamed  of  Thee  whom  angels  praise,Whose  glories  shine  through  endless  days.  Days. 
2.  Ashamed  of  Jesus!  just  as  soon  Let  mid-night  be  ashamed  of  noon;  ’Tis  midnight  with  my  soul  till  He,  Bright  morning  star,  bids  darkness  flee.  flee. 
3.  Ashamed  of  Je-sus,  sooner  far  Let  evening  blush  to  own  a  star;  He  sheds  the  beams  of  light  divine  O’er  th<s  be-night-ed  soul  of  mine.  mine. 
1  2 
4.  Ashamed  of  Jesus,  that  dear  Friend  On  whom  my  hopes  of  heav’n  depend!  No,  when  I  blush,  be  this  my  shame,  That  I  no  more  revere  His  name.  name. 
12 
This  hymn  was  originally  composed  by  Joseph  Grigg  when  he  was  but  ten  years  old.  It  is  one  among  the  hymns  selected  in  the  “  National  Hymn  Book  of 
American  Churches.”  It  appears  in  the  leading  hymn  books  of  the  seven  denominations  therein  described.  The  original  name  of  the  hymn  in  the  author’s 
publication  was  “Ashamed  Of  Me.”  This  is  one  of  the  favorite  hymns,  and  the  music  to  which  it  is  applied  has  some  of  the  sweetest  chords  found  in  most  sacred 
tunes.  Joseph  Fawcett,  one  of  the  greatest  orators  and  hymn  writers  of  London,  was  a  nephew  of  Joseph  Grigg.  Mr.  Grigg  was  born  about  1720  and  died  1768. 
This  tune  is  credited  to  John  Messengale.  There  is  some  doubt,  however,  about  his  writing  the  music,  yet  he  may  have  made.some  important  changes  in  it. 
It  was  not  in  its  present  form  when  first  published.  It  appears  in  the  earlier  editions  of  “Missouri  Harmony,”  in  1827,  and  Mason’s  “Sacred  Harp,”  in  1841; 
also  in  “  Hesperian  Harp,”  by  William  Houser,  in  about  1839,  as  well  as  many  other  publications. 
PETERBOROUGH.  C.  M. 
JOHN  Newton,  1779.  Key  of  A  Major.  “The  effectual  fervent  prayer  of  a  righteous  man  availeth  much.”  REV.  Raeph  HARRISON.  1786. 
i.  Approach.  mv  soul.lthe  mercv-seat.  Where  Je-sus  answers  prayer; 
There  humbly  fall  before  His 
feet.  For  none  can  per  -  ish  there,  there. 
1  2 
2.  Thy  prom-ise  is  my  on  -  ly  plea,  With  this  I  ven  -  ture  nigh; 
Here  on  my  heart  the.  bur-den  lies,  And  past  offences  pain  mine  eyes.  eyes. 
1  2 
3.  Bowed  down  beneath  a  load  of  sin,  By  Sa-tan  sore  -  ly  prest, 
By  war  with-out  and  fear  with-in  1  come  to  thee  for  rest.  rest. 
1  2 
See  remarks  about  John  Newton  under  tune  “  New  Britain,”  page  45. 
Rev.  Ralph  Harrison,  author  of  the  music,  was  born  in  1744  and  died  in  1810.  This  is  one  of  the  old  melodies,  and  can  be  found  in  many  of  the  song  books 
from  1786,  when  it  was  first  composed,  to  the  present  time.  See  “Southern  Harmony,”  “Missouri  Harmony,”  and  “Sacred  Harp,”  by  Mason;  “Christian 
Harmony,”  bv  Houser,  and  many  other  books.  It  is  claimed  that  this  is  one  of  the  first  hymns  of  invitation  for  penitent  sinners  ever  written. 
