WEEPING  SAVIOUR.  S.  M. 
And  when  he  was  come  near,  he  beheld  the  city  and  wept  over  it.—Euke  19:  41. 
Rev.  Benjaman  Beddome,  about  1849.  Key  of  F  ft  Minor. 
33 
Joseph  Barnby. 
i  a 
i.  Did  Christ  o’er  sin-ners  weep?  And  shall  our  cheeks  be  dry? 
Let  floods  of  pen  -  i  -  ten-tial  grief  Burst  forth  from  ev-’ry  eye. 
1  2 
2.  The  Son  of  God  in  tears  The  won-d’ring  an-gels  see; 
Be  thou  as  -  ton-ished,  O  my  soul,  He  shed  those  tears  for  thee. 
1  2 
3.  He  wept  that  we  might  weep;  Each  sin  de-mands  a  tear; 
In  heav  -  en  a  -  Ione  no  sin  is  found,  And  there’s  no  weeping  there. 
1  2 
Rev.  Beddome  was  born  in  Wishshire,  1717,  and  died  1795.  He  was  a  Baptist  minister  of  great  distinction.  He  composed  a  large  number  of  hymns,  among 
them  was  the  above.  His  hymns  were  mostly  written  for  his  own  services,  but  many  of  them  now  appear  in  the  hymn  books  of  the  various  denominations. 
Weeping  Saviour  is  probably  an  English  air.  It  is  found  in  early  American  tune  books. 
Joseph  Barnaby,  author  of  the  music.  He  wrote  many  tunes  and  hymns,  which  are  referred  to  in  many  hymnals  of  this  country. 
ABBEVILLE.  S.  M. 
“  They  were  all  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  they  spake  the  word  of  God  with  boldness.”—Acts  4:  31 
Rev.  Benjaman  Beddome,  1818.  Key  of  G  Major. 
]  2 
1.  Come,  Ho  -  ly  Spir  -  it,  come,  With  en  -  er 
gy 
di  -  vine,  And  on  this  poor,  be-night  -  ed 
soul,  With  beams  of  merc-y 
shine. 
1  2 
2.  Melt,  melt  this 
froz  -  en 
This  stub-born  will 
heart; 
sub  -  due;  Each  e  -  vil 
all  a  - 
3 
prohp  -  et 
But  Thine  shall  be 
be, 
the  praise;  And  un  -  to 
Thee  will 
de  -  vote  The  rem-nant 
of  my 
2 
new. 
1 
days. 
1 
3.  Mine  will  the 
pas-sion  0  -  ver  -  come,  And  form  me 
The  above  hymn  was  composed  about  1818.  See  remarks  about  Rev.  Benjamin  Beddome  under  tune  “  Weeping  Saviour.”  The  original  title  to  this  hymn  was 
“  Invocation.”  In  the  early  editions  of  the  “  Sacred  Harp  ”  this  tune  is  credited  to  E.  J.  King,  but  the  original  tune  appears  in  other  books  of  much  earlier  date  than 
1844.  See  works  of  Andrew  Law,  Oliver  Holden,  Lowell  Mason,  and  others  early  in  the  nineteenth  century.  Prof.  King  changed  some  of  the  notes. 
