28  AYLESBURY.  S.  M. 
“  According  to  thy  name,  O  God,  so  is  thy  praise  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth  :  thy  right  hand  is  full  of  righteousness.  For  this  God  is  our  God  for  ever  and  ever: 
REV.  ISAAC  Watts,  1719.  Key  of  A  Minor.  he  will  be  our  guide  even  unto  death.”—Ps.  48  :  10,14.  JAMBS  GREEN. 
1.  The 
God  we 
wor  -  ship 
now,  Will  guide  us 
till 
we  die, 
Will  be  our  God  while  here  be  - 
low,  And 
ours  a  -  bove  the 
sky. 
2.  How 
de-cent 
and  how 
wise!  How  glo-rious 
to 
be  -  hold, 
Be-yond  the  pomp  that  charms  the 
eye,  And 
rites  a  -  domed  with 
gold. 
3.  Far 
as  Thy  name  is  known,  The  world  de-dares  Thy  praise; 
Thy  saints,  O  Lord,  be  -  fore  Thy  throne  Their  songs  of  hon  -  or  raise. 
This  tune  appeared  in  many  of  the  old  song  books.  In  Wilfiam  Billings’  “Work  of  18th  century;”  “Southern  Harmony,”  1835;  Mason’s  “Sacred  Harp,’’ 
1840;  “  Missouri  Harmony,”  1837,  and  earlier  editions.  This  hymn  is  taken  from  a  book  called  “The  Beauty  of  the  Church,”  or  “Gospel  Worship  and  Order.” 
It  has  six  stanzas.  The  tune  “  Aylesbury  ”  is  in  the  older  song  books,  and  is  a  fine  minor  piece  of  music.  It  was  composed  by  James  Green. 
WELLS.  L.  M. 
“  Whatsoever  thy  hand  findeth  to  do,  do  it  with  thy  might;  for  there  is  no  work,  nor  device,  nor  knowledge,  nor  wisdom,  in  the  grave,  whither  thou  goest.”—Eccl.  9  :  10. 
Rev.  Isaac  Watts,  1719.  Key  of  G  Major.  Israee  Hoedroyd,  1716. 
1.  Life  is  the  time  to  serve  the  Lord, 
The  time  t’insure  the  great  re  -  ward; 
And  while  the  lamp  holds  out  to 
burn 
The  vil  -  est  sin-ner  may  re  -  turn. 
2.  Life  is  the  hour  God  has  giv’n 
To  es-cape  hell  and  fly  to  heav’n;  The  day  of  grace,  and  mortals  may 
Se  -  cure  the  bless-ing  of  the  day. 
3.  The  living  know  that  they  must  die,  But  all  the  dead  for-got-ten  lie;  Their  mem-’ry  and  their  sense  is  gone, 
A  -  like  un-know-ing  and  un-known. 
“Wells”  is  one  of  the  old  tunes  composed  by  the  above  author.  It  is  always  coupled  with  the  above  hymn.  Holdroyd  was  born  in  England,  1690,  and  was 
both  a  composer  and  publisher  of  psalmody.  His  chief  collections  were  published  in  1746.  He  wrote  a  historical  account  of  music  and  dictionary  of  the  same,  1753. 
In  these  sketches  a  number  of  items  will  be  given  about  the  great  hymn  writer,  Isaac  Watts.  He  was  a  very  delicate  man.  as  far  as  health  was  concerned. 
Was  a  fine  orator,  polished  and  eloquent  minister,  and  a  man  of  great  power  and  influence,  and  one  among  the  greatest  hymn  writers  of  the  English-speaking 
people.  He  belonged  to  the  English  Congregationalists. 
“  Wells  ”  was  first  published  in  1716  in  England;  by  Billings  in  1807;  Andrew  Law  in  1820;  Little  Si  Smith  in  1830;  “  Southern  Harmony  ”  in  1835;  Missouri 
“  Harmony  ”  in  1837,  and  in  many  of  the  earlier  books  of  the  above  authors, 
