4  RUDIMENTS  OF 
The  Semi-breve  is  now  the  longest  note  in  music  and  is  called  a  measure 
note.  There  are  certain  modes  of  time  that  takes  a  dotted  semi-breve  to  fill 
a  measure. 
LEADING  NOTE  AND  KEY  NOTE. 
In  each  tune  written  on  the  staff  there  is  a  leading  note  and  key  note. 
The  leading  note  is  always  on  some  one  line  or  space  of  the  music  staff 
and  so  is  the  key  note.  When  the  leading  note  is  discovered,  then  the  key  note 
is  on  the  next  line  or  space  above  or  below  it,  and  wherever  you  find  the  key 
note  it  is  always  No.  1. 
Two  kinds  of  music  are  in  use,  called  Maj  bright  and  oyous,  and  Minor, 
plaintiff  and  melancholy. 
When  Major  music  is  written,  the  key  note  is  on  the  first  line  or  space 
above  the  leading  note.  In  Minor  music  the  key  note  is  on  the  line  or  space 
below  the  leading  note.  (Further  explanation  made  under  head  of  “Major 
and  Minor.”) 
Tune—When  one,  two,  three  or  four  parts  are  sung  or  played,  it  is 
called  a  tune. 
An  Air,  a  Melody—A  succession  of  measured  sounds,  agreeable  to  the 
ear  and  possessing  a  distinct  and  striking  character;  to  bring  into  harmony. 
The  different  parts  of  music  are  called:  1.  Bass,  the  lowest  part;  2.  Tenor, 
the  leading  part;  3.  Alto,  next  to  lowest  part;  4.  Treble,  written  on  tenor  staff. 
Note—The  Alto,  sometimes  called  Counter,  is  sung  by  female  voices  of 
low  register.  Bass  is  sung  by  male  voices  of  low  register.  Tenor,  the  leading 
part  (Cantus,  song),  is  sung  by  male  voices  of  high  register.  This  part,  by 
some  writers,  is  called  Soprano,  and  is  sung  by  female  voices  of  high  register. 
Harmony  is  the  art  of  binding  tones  into  cords  and  treating  those  cords 
according  to  certain  rules. 
Note—Harmony  is  the  foundation  of  Melody  and  we  must  have  a  knowl -
edge  of  one  to  appreciate  the  other.  One  is  not  complete  without  the  other; 
if  we  hear  a  succession  of  harmonies  we  cannot  fail  to  detect  in  it  a  perfect 
flow  of  melody. 
MUSIC.  Continued. 
treble 
ALTO 
TENOR 
BASS 
cented,  the  words  or  poetry  used  in  the  composition  in  many  tunes  often 
direct  the  place  for  natural  accent  by  the  sentiment  of  the  words.  “There 
is  time  to  music.”  There  is  placed  on  the  music  staff  signs  showing  what  kind 
of  time  the  music  is  set  to,  called  Modes  of  Time.  There  are  numbers  of 
them,  namely:  Common,  triple,  compound  and  others.  Mode  of  time  is  a 
particular  system  of  constituting  sound,  by  which  the  octave  is  divided  into 
certain  intervals  according  to  arrangement  of  the  tune  or  notes  on  the  scale 
in  major  or  minor  key. 
There  are  figures  placed  at  the  beginning  of  a  tune  when  understood  will 
show  into  how  many  parts  the  measure  is  divided.  The  music  is  divided  into 
measures  by  placing  a  small  bar  across  the  lines  of  the  staff,  each  of  these 
sub-divisions  by  these  small  bars  is  a  measure.  In  each  of  these  measures 
there  is  what  is  called  Measure  Bars. 
FLOW  OF  MELODY. 
Melody  is  known  to  be  a  succession  of  harmo -
nies  in  a  tune. 
When  harmonic  cords  successfully  blend  into 
each  other 
is  a  succession  of  simple  tones  so  arranged  as 
to  produce  a  pleasing  effect  upon  the  ear.  (See  ex -
ample  under  head  of  Melody. 
Sharps  and  Flats—The  key  note  is  changed  on 
the  staff  by  characters  called  Sharps  and  Flats. 
Sharps  and  Flats  appear  just  after  the  clefs 
in  the  beginning  of  the  tune,  if  they  are  used.  They 
are  called  Signature. 
When  the  key  note  is  discovered  either  in  its 
natural  place  or  by  sharps  or  flats,  they  always 
come  in  their  regular  order  on  the  staff.  The 
changing  of  key  note  changes  all  other  notes  so 
as  to  follow  in  their  regular  order  after  the  key 
note  on  the  lines  and  spaces  of  the  staff. 
To  emphasize  or  stress  any  part  of  the  music 
is  called  accent. 
There  are  certain  signs  in  music  placed  on  the 
staff  showing  where  and  how  the  tune  is  to  be  ac- 
