6  RUDIMENTS  OF 
The  other  notes,  Faw,  Sol,  La  in  the  four-shape  notes  are  called  by  same 
names  in  the  books.  Seven  shapes  and  in  the  round  notes  as  they  are  in  the 
four-note. 
Rest  means  pause,  silence.  They  are  represented  by  different  characters; 
named,  whole  rest,  half  rest,  quarter  rest,  eighth  rest,  sixteenth  rest  and  thirty- 
second  rest. 
There  are  also  Dotted  rest  marks  the  same  as  Dotted  notes.  When  you  add 
a  Dot  just  after  either  of  the  Rests  it  adds  one-half  to  its  length.  Names  and 
positions  of  each  of  the  Rests  on  the  staff  are  as  follows: 
Semibreve.  Minum.  Crochet.  Quaver.  Semiquaver.  Demisemiquaver. 
The  Semibreve,  whole  rest;  Minim,  half  rest,  Crochet,  one-fourth  rest, 
Quaver,  eighth,  Semiquaver,  sixteenth  and  Demisemiquaver,  thirty-second  rest. 
It  is  understood  that  there  are  Three  system  notations,  but  they  are  all 
written  on  the  same  general  system  and  principle. 
Four  notes,  seven  shapes  and  round  notes,  the  four  note  system.  The 
head  of  the  notes  are  shaped  as  follows:  Mi  Faw  Sol  La  Mi 
is  the  leading  note  and  governs  the  other  three.  When  you  find  Mi,  if  the 
notes  are  going  up  the  scale  they  proceed  in  their  regular  order,  thus:  Mi, 
Fa,  Sol,  La,  Fa,  Sol,  La,  Mi.  Going  down,  Mi,  La,  Sol,  Fa. 
When  seven  shaped  headed  notes  are  used  they  are  as  follows:  Going 
up  the  scale  they  are  Do,  Ra,  Mi,  Fa,  Sol,  La,  Si,  and  Do,  again. 
Going  down,  the  order  isreversed. 
These  notes  have  for  years  been  called  patent  notes.  It  was  believed 
that  Jesse  B.  Aikin  obtained  a  patent  on  them,  but  after  full  investigation  it 
has  been  ascertained  that  no  patent  was  ever  obtained  under  the  patent  laws 
of  the  United  States  at  Washington,  D.  C. 
The  round  note  system  is  exactly  like  the  seven  shape  note  system  except 
all  of  its  note  heads  are  written  round. 
Tunes  written  in  four  and  seven  shape  note  system,  you  can  tell  the  name 
of  the  notes  by  the  position  they  occupy  on  the  staff.  And  also  by  the  shape 
of  the  head  of  the  notes. 
When  round  notes  are  used  you  can  only  know  the  names  of  the  notes  on 
account  of  the  position  they  occupy  on  the  staff, 
MUSIC.  Continued. 
LESSON  I. 
LAW  OF  SOUND. 
1.  What  is  sound? 
A  sound  is  anything  and  everything  audible.  It  is  noise,  report,  the  object 
of  hearing,  a  vibration  of  the  air,  caused  by  a  collision  of  bodies  or  other 
means,  sufficient  to  effect  the  auditory  nerves.  Sound  is  the  noise  produced  by 
all  vibrating  bodies. 
2.  What  is  a  musical  sound  and  what  is  it  called?  It  is  called  in  music  a 
tone. 
3.  How  is  a  musical  sound  or  tone  produced?  It  is  produced  by  the 
vibrations  of  sonorious  substances,  such  as  an  organ  pipe,  strings,  wire,  reeds, 
etc.,  and  the  human  voice. 
4.  What  is  the  human  voice  when  applied  to  music?  The  voice  when  ap -
plied  to  music  constitutes  the  tones  or  sounds  produced  by  the  vocal  oigans 
5.  What  is  the  difference  between  musical  sounds,  or  tones,  and  mere  noise? 
All  sounds  are  the  result  of  atmospheric  vibrations  affecting  the  ear.  Musical 
sunds  or  tones  are  produced  by  regular  vibrations,  and  differ  from  mere 
noise,  whose  vibrations  are  irregular  and  confused. 
6.  How  does  the  pitch  of  a  musical  tone  rise?  The  pitch  of  a  musical  tone 
rises  in  proportion  to  the  rapidity  of  the  vibrations  that  produced  it. 
7.  How  do  we  perceive  tones?  Tones  are  perceived  by  the  human  ear 
ranging  from  about  sixteen  vibrations  in  a  second  to  nearly  forty  thousand, 
more  than  eleven  octaves. 
8.  How  many  octaves  are  used  in  music?  The  best  authorities  tell  us 
there  are  only  about  seven  octaves. 
9.  In  order  to  understand  music,  it  is  necessary  to  study  the  science  of 
accoustics?  The  science  of  accoustics  is  of  profound  value  to  any  one  who 
would  gain  an  insight  into  the  structure,  art  and  science  of  music. 
Note—Teachers  should  see  to  it  that  their  pupils  understand  the  law 
of  accoustics.  It  has  been  greatly  neglected  in  giving  instructions  in  music 
lessons. 
Vibration  is  the  tremulous  motion  of  the  air  by  which  sound  is  pro -
duced;  the  sound  being  grave  or  acute  as  the  vibrations  are  fewer  or  more 
numerous  in  a  given  time. 
10.  What  does  accoustic  mean?  Accoustic  means  the  science  of  sounds; 
the  science  treating  of  the  laws  of  sound.  For  further  definition  see  Groves’ 
or  Elsons  ’Music  Dictionaries. 
11.  What  is  the  difference  between  a  musical  tone  or  sound  or  an  ordinary 
sound?  A  musical  tone  or  sound  differs  from  an  ordinary  sound  in  this.  A 
musical  sound  or  tone  is  regular,  smooth  and  even.  Noise  is  irregular,  rough  and 
uneven;  the  first  gives  joy,  pleasure  and  satisfaction  to  the  hearing,  while 
the  other  has  the  reverse  effect  on  the  hearing  ajid  is  grating  to  the  sense  of 
