RUDIMENTS  Continued 
3 
The  following  examples  shows  the  position  of 
ferent  notations.  Shape  Notes.  Key  of  C.  G  Clef. 
The  Seven  Shaped  Notes. 
the  notes  on  the  staff  in  the  dif— 
Do,  or  One  is  on  added  line  below 
1  2  3 ?  4  5  6  7  .8  7  6  5  4  3  2,1 
Do,  Re,  Me,  Fa,  Sol,  La.  Se,  Do.  Do,  Se,  La,  Sol,  Fa,  Me,  Re,  Do. 
Round  Notes,  (Read  by  their  position  on  the  staff.) 
Key  of  E  flat.  B,  E  and  A  flat,  (Three  flats.)  Round  notes. 
1  2  3  4  5.6  7887  6  5  4321 
Do,  Ra,  Me,  Fa,  Sol,  La,  Se,  Do.  Do,  Se,  La,  Sol,  Fa,  me,  Ra,  Do. 
The  Scale  or  Gamut,  four  Shape  Notes. 
Names  and  position  of  the  four  shape  notes  on  the  G  clef  staff.  (Key  of  C.) 
1  23  45678  87  654  3  2  1 
Fa,  Sol,  La,  Fa.  Sol,  La,  Me,  Fa.  Fa,  Me,  La,  Sol,  Fa,  La,  Sol,  Fa. 
19.  Does  the  shape  of  a  note  make  any  difference  about  its  position  on  the  music 
staff?  No,  the  shape  of  the  notes  do  not  have  anything  to  do  with  their  position  on 
the  staff;  they  occupy  the  same  line  or  space  on  the  staff,  regardless  of  the  shape 
of  the  note,  which  is  seen  by  reference  to  the  staff  set  out  above. 
Comparative  Length  of  Notes, 
A  TABLE  OF  THE  COMPARATIVE  LENGTH  OF  NOTES. 
A  whole  note  is  white  with  no  stem,  thus: 
A  half  note  is  a  white  note  with  a  stem,  thus: 
A  quarter  note  is  a  black  note  with  a  stem,  thus: 
An  eighth  note  is  a  black  note  with  a  stem  and  flag,  thus: 
A  sixteenth  note  is  a  black  note  with  a  stem  and  two  flags,  thus: 
A  thirty  second  note  is  a  black  note  with  a  stem  and  three  flags,  thus: 
Four  quarter. 
or 
Eight  eighths 
or 
Sixteen  sixteenths 
or 
Thirty  two  thirty  seconds. 
is  equal  in  length  to 
or 
A  table  of  the  comparitive  lengths  of 
notes. 
A  whole  note 
Two  halves 
When  a  dot  is  set  to  the  wrlght  of  the  note  it  adds  one  half  to  its  length. 
A  dotted  whole  note  is  equal  in  length  to  three  half  notes,  ect. 
A  dotted  whole  note* 
is  equal  to 
or. 
er 
A  dotted  half  note 
is  equal  to 
or 
or 
A  dotted  quarter  note 
is  equal  to 
or 
or 
As  stated  above  they  are  called  Do,  Re,  Me,  Fa,  Sol,  La,  Se.  But  their  lengths, 
as  to  whole,  half,  quarter  ect.  are  the  same  in  all  the  books. 
There  are  six  notes  in  relation  to  the  time  of  each.  They  are  called  Semibreve, 
Minum,  Crochet,  Quaver,  Semiquaver,  and  Demisemiquaver. 
“  The  following  shows  the  proportion  one  note  bears  another  as  they  appear  in  the 
songs  regardless  of  notation. 
One  Semibreve  is  equal  in  time  to  Two  Minums. 
Four  Crochets,'' 
Eight  Quavers. 
Sixteen  Semiquavers. 
Thirty-two  Demisemiquavers. 
